CAP. 234, R 1]                  Poisons Rules                      [1999 Ed.   p. 1

                        POISONS ACT
                  (CHAPTER 234, SECTION 20(1))

                            POISONS RULES

                       ARRANGEMENT OF RULES
Rule
    1.   Citation
    2.   Definitions
    3.   Licences
    4.   Form of record of sales
    5.   Wholesale sales
    6.   [Deleted]
    7.   [Deleted]
    8.   Fees
    9.   Extension of labelling provisions
  10.    Limitation of section 6 (3) of Act to certain substances
  11.    Extension of section 6 (3) to section 8 of Act, sales and supply by
         commercial sample, and relaxation of this subsection
  12.    Relaxation of section 7 (3) of Act in case of certain medicines
  13.    Exemption from provisions relating solely to substances in First
         Schedule
  14.    Complete exemption of persons dealing with certain poisons
  14A.   Exemption for retail sale of poisons by pharmacists
  14B.   [Deleted]
  14C.   [Deleted]
  15.    Additional restrictions on sale of certain poisons
  16.    Coded prescription prohibited
  17.    [Deleted]
  18.    Restriction of sale of strychnine
  19.    Manner of labelling containers
  20.    Labelling of name of poison
  21.    Labelling of particulars as to proportion of poison
  22.    Indication of character of poison
  23.    Special cautions in case of certain substances
  24.    Relaxation of certain labelling requirements
  25.    Form of containers
  26.    Storage of poisons
  27.    Transport of poisons
  28.    Special provisions with respect to transport of certain poisons
  29.    Supply of medicines to outpatients from certain hospitals, etc.


          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 2    1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                      [CAP. 234, R 1
Rule
  30.      Supply of medicines for use in hospitals, etc.
  31.      Storage of poisons in institutions
  32.      [Deleted]
  33.      Colouring of poisons
  34.      Preservation of records
  35.      Penalties
           The Schedules



                                                                 [5th April 1957]

Citation
 1. These Rules may be cited as the Poisons Rules.

Definitions
 2.—(1) In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires —
       “active ingredient” means any substance or compound that —
               (a) is usable in the manufacture of a health product under
                   the Health Products Act 2007 as a pharmacologically
                   active constituent; and
               (b) is specified as an active ingredient in the Schedule to
                   the Health Products (Active Ingredients) Regulations
                   2023 (G.N. No. S 831/2023);
                                                            [S 834/2023 wef 18/12/2023]

       “animal” includes poultry;
       “antimonial poisons” means chlorides of antimony, oxides of
          antimony, sulphides of antimony, antimonates, antimonites
          and organic compounds of antimony;
       “arsenical poisons” means halides of arsenic, oxides of arsenic,
          sulphides of arsenic, arsenates, arsenites, copper aceto-
          arsenites, sodium thioarsenates and organic compounds of
          arsenic;
       “British Pharmacopoeia” and “Pharmaceutical Codex” include
         the supplements and addenda thereto;

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                   [1999 Ed.    p. 3
     “cell, tissue and gene therapy product” means a health product
        under the Health Products Act 2007 which is categorised as a
        cell, tissue or gene therapy product in the First Schedule to
        that Act;
                                                     [S 834/2023 wef 18/12/2023]

     “Chinese proprietary medicine” has the same meaning as in the
       Medicines (Traditional Medicines, Homoeopathic Medicines
       and other Substances) (Exemption) Order (O 6);
                                                     [S 834/2023 wef 31/12/2021]
                                                     [S 714/2012 wef 01/01/2013]

     [Deleted by S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]
     “current edition”, in relation to any publication which describes
        a herbal substance in raw form, means an edition which is
        current at the time the herbal substance is sold or supplied,
        and includes any amendment, addition or deletion made to
        that edition of the publication up to that time;
                                                      [S 62/2016 wef 01/04/2016]

     “food” includes a beverage;
     “licensed importer” means an importer licensed under the Act;
     “licensed person” means a person licensed under the Act;
     “licensed retail pharmacy” means premises specified in a
        pharmacy licence issued under the Health Products
        (Licensing of Retail Pharmacies) Regulations 2016
        (G.N. No. S 330/2016);
                                                     [S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]

     “medical device” means a medical device referred to in the First
       Schedule to the Health Products Act 2007;
                                                     [S 834/2023 wef 31/12/2021]
                                                     [S 714/2012 wef 01/01/2013]

     “mercurial poisons” means oxides of mercury, mercuric salts
       and organic compounds of mercury;




          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 4   1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
       “registered nurse” means a nurse whose name is included in any
          part of the register of nurses maintained under the Nurses and
          Midwives Act 1999;
                                                       [S 834/2023 wef 31/12/2021]

       [Deleted by S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]
       “sale by wholesale” means sale in any of the circumstances set
          out in section 8 of the Act;
                                                       [S 539/2008 wef 01/11/2008]

       “sell by retail”, in relation to any poison, means to sell the poison
          otherwise than by wholesale;
                                                       [S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]

       “therapeutic product” means a health product under the Health
          Products Act 2007 which is categorised as a therapeutic
          product in the First Schedule to that Act.
                                                       [S 834/2023 wef 31/12/2021]
                                                       [S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]

 (2) In these Rules —
        (a) any reference to an alkaloid shall include a reference to any
            salt of that alkaloid and in a case where the esters of an
            alkaloid are included in the Poisons List by virtue of the
            words, “its esters”, to any ester of that alkaloid; and
        (b) any reference to medicines for the internal treatment of
            human ailments shall include any medicine to be
            administered by hypodermic injection but shall not
            include a reference to gargles, mouth-washes, eye-drops,
            eye-lotions, ear-drops, preparations for naso-pharyngeal
            use, and douches for rectal, vaginal or urethral use.
 (3) Any reference in the Schedules to the percentage of a poison
contained in any substance shall, unless otherwise expressly
provided, be construed in the following manner, that is to say, a
reference to a substance containing 1% of any poison means:
        (a) in the case of a solid, that one gramme of the poison is
            contained in every 100 grammes of the substance; and



            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                 Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed.   p. 5
      (b) in the case of a liquid, that one millilitre of the poison, or, if
          the poison itself is a solid, one gramme of the poison, is
          contained in every 100 millilitres of the substance,
and so in proportion for any greater or lesser percentage.

Licences
 3.—(1) A licence to import, store and sell by wholesale poisons
included in the Poisons List shall be in Form A of the Eighth
Schedule.
 (2) A licence to import and deal generally in poisons by wholesale
and retail shall be in Form C set out in the Eighth Schedule.

Form of record of sales
 4. The particulars of sales of poisons which are required by
section 6 (3) (b) of the Act to be entered in a book shall be entered in
Form D set out in the Eighth Schedule.

Wholesale sales
 5.—(1) [Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]
 (2) A person so licensed shall keep a record of the arrival and sale of
poisons in a book or other form of record kept solely for that purpose
but shall not be required to comply with section 6 (3) (b) of the Act.
 (3) The record shall be kept in Form E set out in the Eighth
Schedule or otherwise recorded in such manner as to provide all the
particulars required in that Form.
 (4) A person so licensed shall obtain an order in writing in
accordance with rule 10 in respect of the sale of any poison and shall
enter a reference to such order in the record kept in pursuance of
paragraph (2).
 6. [Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]
 7. [Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]




           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 6   1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
Fees
 8. The fees for licences under the Act shall be as set out in the Ninth
Schedule.

Extension of labelling provisions
 9. The provisions of section 6(2) of the Act and the provisions of
these Rules relating to the labelling of poisons —
       (a) shall apply to the sale of any poison in the circumstances
           set out in section 8 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of the Act;
           and
       (b) shall also apply with respect to the supply of poisons
           (otherwise than by sale) in like manner as if references in
           those provisions to the sale and seller of poisons included
           references to the supply and supplier of poisons,
           respectively.

Limitation of section 6 (3) of Act to certain substances
 10. Except as provided in section 8 of the Act, section 6(3) of the
Act shall apply to all substances in the First Schedule (whether or not
they consist of or contain poisons included in the Poisons List) and
which are not specified in the Fifth Schedule.
                                                         [S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]

Extension of section 6 (3) to section 8 of Act, sales and supply by
commercial sample, and relaxation of this subsection
 11.—(1) Section 6(3) of the Act as modified by rule 10 —
       (a) shall apply to sales exempted by section 8 of the Act except
           sales of poisons to be exported from Singapore to a place
           other than Malaysia; and
       (b) shall also apply to the supply in the form of commercial
           sample, otherwise than on sale, of any substance included
           in the First Schedule in like manner as if references to the
           sale and seller of poisons respectively included references
           to the supply and supplier of poisons in the form of
           commercial samples.


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed.   p. 7
 (2) So much of section 6(3) of the Act as requires an entry in a book
to be signed by the purchaser of a poison shall not, as respects the sale
of a poison to a person for the purpose of his trade, business or
profession, apply if the following requirements are satisfied:
      (a) the seller obtains before the completion of the sale an order
          in writing signed by the purchaser stating his name and
          address, trade, business or profession, and the following
          particulars in regard to the article to be purchased, that is to
          say, the purpose for which it is required and the total
          quantity to be purchased, or, in the case of an article packed
          in ampoules, either the total quantity to be purchased or the
          total quantity intended to be administered or injected;
      (b) the seller is satisfied that the signature is that of the person
          purporting to have signed the order, that the person carries
          on the trade, business or profession stated in the order, and
          that it is one in which the poison to be purchased is used;
          and
      (c) the seller inserts in the appropriate entry in the record
          prescribed by rule 4 or 5 the words, “signed order” and a
          reference number by which the order can be identified.
 (3) Where a person represents that he urgently requires a poison for
the purpose of his trade, business or profession, the seller may, if he is
reasonably satisfied that the person requires the poison and is, by
reason of some emergency unable before delivery either to furnish to
the seller an order in writing duly signed or to attend and sign the
entry in the book, deliver the poison to the purchaser on an
undertaking by the purchaser to furnish such an order within the
next 24 hours.
  (4) If the purchaser by whom any undertaking has been given under
paragraph (3) fails to deliver to the seller a signed order in accordance
with the undertaking, or if any person for the purpose of taking
delivery of any poison under paragraph (3) makes a statement which
is to his knowledge false, he shall be deemed to have contravened this
rule.




          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 8   1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
 (5) Where the seller of a poison is satisfied that the poison is
required by way of wholesale dealing or for the purpose of medical,
dental or veterinary treatment, there shall not apply —
       (a) in the case of a sale in any of the circumstances set out in
           section 8 (a) or (d) of the Act, such of the provisions of this
           rule as require the purchaser to state his trade, business or
           profession and the seller to be satisfied thereto; and
       (b) in the case of a sale in any of the circumstances set out in
           section 8 (a), (c) or (d) of the Act, such of the provisions of
           this rule as require the purchaser to state the purpose for
           which the poison is required.

Relaxation of section 7 (3) of Act in case of certain medicines
 12. The requirements mentioned in section 7(3) of the Act need not
be satisfied in the case of any medicine, not being a medicine
consisting of or containing any substance included in the
First Schedule, which is supplied by —
       (a) a medical practitioner for the purposes of medical
           treatment; or
       (b) a person licensed to sell any poison included in the Poisons
           List on and in accordance with a prescription given by a
           medical practitioner.
                                                         [S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]

Exemption from provisions relating solely to substances in
First Schedule
 13. Such of the provisions of these Rules and of the Act as apply
solely to the substances included in the First Schedule, shall not apply
to —
       (a) machine-spread plasters;
       (b) surgical dressings; or
       (c) articles containing barium carbonate and prepared for the
           destruction of rats and mice.




            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                   [1999 Ed.    p. 9
Complete exemption of persons dealing with certain poisons
 14.—(1) Nothing in the Act or these Rules applies to —
      (a) a person who deals with or possesses —
            (i) any article specified in Group I of the Second
                Schedule; or
            (ii) any poison specified in the first or second column of
                 Group II of the Second Schedule when contained in
                 or consisting of the article or substance specified
                 opposite that poison in the third column;
                                                     [S 562/2022 wef 01/08/2022]

      (b) a public officer or an officer of the Authority who imports
          any poison on account of the Government in the course of
          that officer’s duty;
                                                     [S 834/2023 wef 18/12/2023]

      (c) a holder of a manufacturer’s licence for a health product
          under the Health Products Act 2007 who imports a
          substance specified in the First Schedule, if that
          substance is required for the manufacture of the health
          product; or
                                                     [S 834/2023 wef 18/12/2023]
                                                     [S 562/2022 wef 01/08/2022]

      (d) a holder of a manufacturer’s licence for an active
          ingredient who imports a substance specified in the First
          Schedule, if that substance is required for the manufacture
          of the active ingredient.
                                                     [S 834/2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 (2) In paragraph (1) —
     “active ingredient” means any substance or compound that is
        usable in the manufacture of a health product under the
        Health Products Act 2007 as a pharmacologically active
        constituent;
     “manufacturer’s licence for an active ingredient” means a
       licence authorising the holder of the licence to manufacture


          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 10   1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
         any active ingredient under the Health Products (Active
         Ingredients) Regulations 2023.
                                                      [S 834/2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Exemption for retail sale of poisons by pharmacists
  14A.—(1) The prohibition under section 5 of the Act against the
possession for sale, sale or offer for sale of any poison without a
licence from a licensing officer shall not apply to a pharmacist who
sells any poison by retail in a licensed retail pharmacy.
                                                      [S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]

 (2) Section 6(1)(a) of the Act shall not apply to a pharmacist who
sells any poison by retail in a licensed retail pharmacy.
                                                      [S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]

 14B. [Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]
 14C. [Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]

Additional restrictions on sale of certain poisons
 15.—(1) It shall not be lawful to sell any poison included in the
Third Schedule, except on and in accordance with a prescription
given by a medical practitioner, dentist or veterinary surgeon in a
form complying with the requirements of this rule.
 (2) This rule shall apply to the sale of such poisons notwithstanding
that it consists of or is an ingredient of a medicine dispensed or
supplied in the circumstances set out in section 7 (1) (b) and (c) of the
Act, and in accordance with that section, but shall not apply to the sale
of any such poison in the circumstances set out in section 8 of the Act.
 (3) For the purposes of this rule, a prescription shall —
        (a) be in writing and be signed by the person giving it with his
            usual signature and be dated by him;
        (b) specify the address of the person giving it;
        (c) specify the name and address of the person for whose
            treatment it is given or, if the prescription is given by a
            veterinary surgeon, of the person to whom the medicine is
            to be delivered;


           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed.   p. 11
      (d) have written thereon, if given by a dentist, the words, “For
          dental treatment only” or, if given by a veterinary surgeon,
          the words “For animal treatment only”; and
      (e) indicate the total amount of medicine to be supplied and
          the dose to be taken.
 (4) The person dispensing the prescription shall comply with the
following requirements:
      (a) the prescription shall not be dispensed more than once
          unless the prescriber has stated thereon that it may be
          dispensed more than once;
      (b) if the prescription contains a direction that it may be
          dispensed a stated number of times but no interval is
          specified, it shall not be dispensed more than once in 3
          days, and if the intervals are specified without direction as
          to the number of times the prescription may be dispensed,
          it shall not be dispensed more than 3 times;
      (c) at the time of dispensing there shall be noted on the face of
          the prescription above the signature of the prescriber the
          name and address of the seller and the date on which the
          prescription is dispensed; and
      (d) in the case of a prescription to be repeated it shall be
          retained after being dispensed the second or third time, as
          the case may be, by the last person dispensing the
          prescription.
 (5) Notwithstanding paragraph (4)(b), in an emergency a
pharmacist may supply a poison included in the Third Schedule on
the verbal instructions of a medical practitioner who has undertaken
to give a prescription (or a written order where he is a medical
practitioner in a hospital) within the next 24 hours.
 (6) For the purpose of this rule, “dentist” shall not include any
dentist whose name does not appear in the first division of the
Register of Dentists maintained and kept under section 13(1)(a) of the
Dental Registration Act 1999.
                                                     [S 834/2023 wef 18/12/2023]




          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 12   1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
Coded prescription prohibited
 16. No prescription for any poison included in the Poisons List shall
be written wholly or partly in code or in such a manner that it is not
decipherable by any pharmacist.
                                                        [S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]

 17. [Deleted by S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]

Restriction of sale of strychnine
 18.—(1) It shall not be lawful to sell or supply strychnine except as
an ingredient in a medicine.
 (2) This rule shall not apply to the sale of strychnine —
        (a) by way of wholesale dealing;
        (b) to be exported from Singapore to a place other than
            Malaysia;
        (c) for the purposes of being compounded in medicines
            prescribed or administered by a medical practitioner or a
            veterinary surgeon; or
        (d) to a person or institution concerned with scientific
            education or research or chemical analysis, for the
            purpose of that education, research or analysis.

Manner of labelling containers
  19.—(1) Subject to any provision of these Rules to the contrary, the
particulars with which the container of a poison is required to be
labelled under section 6(2) of the Act and under these Rules shall
appear in a conspicuous position on the container in which the poison
is sold and on the box or other covering of whatever nature enclosing
the container, and the particulars shall be clearly and distinctly set out
and not in any way obscured or obliterated.
 (2) Where the poison is contained in an ampoule, cachet or similar
article, it shall not be necessary to label the article itself, if the box or
other covering in which the article is enclosed is duly labelled.
 (3) Nothing in section 6(2) of the Act or in these Rules shall require
the labelling of any transparent cover or any wrapper, hamper,

           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 13
packing case, crate or other covering used solely for the purpose of
transport or delivery.

Labelling of name of poison
 20.—(1) Subject to this rule, the name of a poison shall, for the
purpose of the provisions relating to labelling, be the term under
which it is included in the Poisons List.
 (2) Where the term referred to in paragraph (1) describes a group of
poisons and not the poison specifically, the name of the poison shall
be —
      (a) if the poison is the subject of a monograph in either the
          British Pharmacopoeia or the Pharmaceutical Codex, one
          or other of the names or synonyms or abbreviated names
          set out at the head of the monograph; and
      (b) in any other case, the accepted scientific name or the name
          descriptive of the true nature and origin of the poison.
 (3) Notwithstanding anything in paragraphs (1) and (2), if the
poison consists of, or is contained in, any preparation in the British
Pharmacopoeia, or the Formulary of the Pharmaceutical Codex, or
any dilution or admixture of such a preparation, the name of the
poison may, for the purposes of this rule, be the name or synonym or
abbreviated name used to describe the preparation in the British
Pharmacopoeia or the Formulary of the Pharmaceutical Codex, with
the addition of the letters B.P. or P.C., as the case may be.

Labelling of particulars as to proportion of poison
 21.—(1) The label of a container of a preparation which contains a
poison as one of the ingredients shall include a statement of the
proportion, whether stated as a percentage or not, which the poison
bears to the total ingredients of the preparation, and where the
proportion is stated as a percentage, the container shall be so labelled
as to indicate whether the percentage is calculated on a basis of
weight in weight, weight in volume or volume in volume.
  (2) In the case of a preparation containing a poison specified in the
first column of the Fourth Schedule, it shall be sufficient to state on


          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 14   1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
the label the particulars specified in the second column of that
Schedule against the description of the poison.
 (3) In the case of a preparation derived from nux vomica or from
opium and containing one or more alkaloids of nux vomica or of
opium named in the Poisons List, it shall be sufficient, so far as these
alkaloids are concerned, to state on the label the proportion of
strychnine or of morphine, as the case may be, contained in the
preparation.
  (4) In the case of a preparation in the British Pharmacopoeia or the
Formulary of the Pharmaceutical Codex which is named in
accordance with rule 20(3) it shall not be necessary to state on the
label the proportion of poison contained in the preparation, and in the
case of any dilution or admixture of such a preparation, it shall be
sufficient to state the proportion which the preparation bears to the
total ingredients of the dilution or admixture.
 (5) Where the poison is in tablets, pills, cachets, capsules, lozenges
or similar articles, or in ampoules, it shall be sufficient if the label of
the box or covering in which the articles are enclosed states the
number of the articles and the amount of the poison, or in the case of
such a preparation as is mentioned in paragraph (4), the amount of the
preparation contained in each article.

Indication of character of poison
 22.—(1) Instead of being labelled with the word “Poison”, the
container of any article specified in the first column of the Fifth
Schedule is to be labelled with the words specified opposite that
article in the second column.
                                                      [S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]

 (2) The said words or the word “Poison”, as the case may be, shall
not be modified in meaning by the addition of any other word or
mark, and shall —
        (a) in the case of a substance included in the First Schedule,
            either be in red lettering or be set against a red background
            with the word “Poison” written or printed in the English,
            Malay, Tamil and Chinese languages; and


           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed.   p. 15
      (b) in all cases either be on a separate label or be surrounded
          by a line within which there shall be no other words except
          words with which the container of the poison is required to
          be labelled under this rule and rule 23.
 (3) The Malay, Tamil and Chinese versions of the words prescribed
in paragraph (2) shall be as set out in the Tenth Schedule.

Special cautions in case of certain substances
 23.—(1) It shall not be lawful —
      (a) to sell or supply any liquid poison, other than a medicine,
          in a bottle of a capacity of less than 3.5 litres, unless the
          bottle is labelled with the words “Not to be taken” in red
          lettering or set against a red background, in the English,
          Malay, Tamil and Chinese languages;
      (b) to sell or supply any poison consisting of or contained in
          any embrocation, liniment, lotion, liquid antiseptic or other
          medicine for external application unless the container is
          labelled with the name of the article and the words “For
          external use only”, in red lettering or set against a red
          background, in the English, Malay, Tamil and Chinese
          languages;
      (c) [Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]
      (d) to sell or supply phenol containing more than 60% of
          phenols, unless the container is labelled with the words
          “Caution: this substance is caustic” in the English, Malay,
          Tamil and Chinese languages.
                                                       [S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]

 (2) This rule shall be in addition to the other requirements of the Act
and of these Rules with respect to labelling and shall apply to poisons
dispensed or supplied in accordance with section 7 of the Act.
 (3) The Malay, Tamil and Chinese versions of the words prescribed
in paragraph (1) shall be as set out in the Tenth Schedule.




          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 16   1999 Ed.]               Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
Relaxation of certain labelling requirements
 24.—(1) Section 6(2)(d) of the Act shall not apply in the case of an
article sold for the purpose of resale in the same container.
 (2) The requirements of section 6(2)(d) of the Act shall be deemed
to be satisfied in the case of a poison supplied from a warehouse or
depot, if the container of the poison is labelled with the address of the
supplier’s principal place of business, or, in the case of a limited
company, of the registered office of the company.
 (3) Where any poison (other than a substance included in the
First Schedule) is sold in a container and outer covering, being the
container and outer covering in which it was obtained by the seller, it
shall be sufficient if the name of the seller and the address of the
premises on which the poison was sold appear only on the outer
covering.
 (4) Where the names of more than one person or more than one
address appear on any label, there shall also be words on the label
indicating clearly which person is the seller and at which of the
addresses the poison was sold.

Form of containers
 25.—(1) It shall not be lawful to sell, whether by wholesale or by
retail, or supply any poison unless —
        (a) it is contained in a container impervious to the poison and
            sufficiently stout to prevent leakage arising from the
            ordinary risks of handling and transport; and
        (b) in the case of a liquid contained in a bottle of a capacity of
            less than 3.5 litres, not being a liquid made up ready to be
            taken for the internal treatment of human ailments or not
            being a local anaesthetic for injection in the treatment of
            human ailments, the outer surface of the bottle is fluted
            vertically with ribs or grooves recognisable by touch.
 (2) This rule shall apply to poisons dispensed or supplied in
accordance with section 7 of the Act.




            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 17
Storage of poisons
  26.—(1) It shall not be lawful to store any poison except in a
container impervious to the poison and sufficiently stout to prevent
leakage from the container arising from the ordinary risks of handling
and transport.
 (2) It shall not be lawful to store any substance included in the
First Schedule in any retail shop or premises used in connection
therewith unless the substance is stored —
      (a) in a cupboard or drawer reserved solely for the storage of
          poisons;
      (b) in a part of the premises which is partitioned off or
          otherwise separated from the remainder of the premises
          and to which customers are not permitted to have access; or
      (c) on a shelf reserved solely for the storage of poisons and —
             (i) no food is kept directly under the shelf; and
            (ii) the container of the substance is rendered
                 distinguishable by touch from the containers of
                 articles and substances other than poisons stored
                 upon the same premises.
 (3) Where any substance mentioned in paragraph (2) is to be used in
agriculture or horticulture, it shall not be lawful to store the substance
on any shelf, or in any such part of the premises if food is kept in that
part, or in any cupboard or drawer unless the cupboard or drawer is
reserved solely for the storage of poisons to be so used.

Transport of poisons
  27. It shall not be lawful to consign any poison for transport unless
it is so packed as to avoid leakage arising from the ordinary risks of
handling and transport.

Special provisions with respect to transport of certain poisons
 28.—(1) It shall not be lawful to consign for transport by a carrier
any substance or article, other than a medicine, consisting of or
containing any poison included in the Sixth Schedule, unless the


          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 18   1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
package containing the substance or article is labelled conspicuously
with the name of the poison and a notice indicating that it is to be kept
separate from foodstuffs and from empty containers in which
foodstuffs have been kept.
 (2) It shall not be lawful for any person knowingly to transport any
such substance or article, either on his own behalf or for another
person, in any vehicle in which food is being transported, unless the
food is carried in a part of the vehicle effectively separated from that
containing the substance or is otherwise adequately protected from
the risk of contamination.

Supply of medicines to outpatients from certain hospitals, etc.
 29.—(1) The provisions of the Act and of these Rules shall not
apply to —
        (a) any medicine for the treatment of human ailments
            dispensed from a hospital, infirmary or dispensary
            maintained by any public authority, or out of public
            funds, or by a charity; or
        (b) any medicine for the treatment of animals supplied from a
            veterinary hospital which is under the superintendence of a
            veterinary surgeon,
but the requirements contained in paragraphs (2) to (5) shall be
satisfied in relation thereto.
 (2) The medicine shall only be supplied by, or on and in accordance
with a prescription of, a medical practitioner for the purposes of
medical treatment, or a dentist for the purposes of dental treatment, or
a veterinary surgeon for the purposes of animal treatment.
 (3) In a case where a substance included in the First Schedule is
supplied, a record shall be kept on the premises in such a way that
there can readily be traced at any time during a period of 2 years after
the date on which the substance was supplied the following
particulars:
        (a) the name and quantity of the poison supplied;
        (b) the date on which the poison was supplied;


           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 19
      (c) the name and address of the person to whom the poison
          was supplied; and
      (d) the name of the person who supplied the poison or who
          gave the prescription upon which it was supplied.
 (4) The container of the medicine shall be labelled —
      (a) with the name and address of the hospital, infirmary,
          dispensary or institution from which it was supplied;
      (b) except in the case of a medicine made up ready for internal
          treatment, with the word “Poison”; and
      (c) in the case of a poison supplied from a veterinary hospital,
          with the words “For animal treatment only”.
 (5) The container of a poison shall —
      (a) be impervious to the poison and sufficiently stout to
          prevent leakage arising from the ordinary risks of handling
          and transport; and
      (b) where the poison is a liquid of a quantity of less than 2.5
          litres, not being a liquid made up ready to be taken for the
          internal treatment of human ailments and not being a local
          anaesthetic for injection in the treatment of human
          ailments, be a bottle the outer surface of which is fluted
          vertically with ribs or grooves recognisable by touch.

Supply of medicines for use in hospitals, etc.
 30.—(1) This rule and rule 31 shall apply to any hospital, infirmary,
dispensary, clinic, nursing home or other institutions at which human
ailments are treated (referred to in this rule and in rule 31 as an
institution).
 (2) In any institution in which medicines are dispensed in a
dispensing or pharmaceutical department in the charge of a person
appointed for that purpose, no medicine containing a poison shall be
supplied from that department, except in cases of emergency, for use
in the wards, operating theatres or other sections of the institution,
except in accordance with the requirements contained in
paragraphs (3), (4) and (5).


          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 20   1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
 (3) The medicines shall only be supplied upon a written order
signed by a medical practitioner, dentist, or by a registered nurse in
charge of a ward, theatre or other section of the institution.
 (4) The container of the medicine shall be labelled —
        (a) with words describing its contents; and
        (b) in the case of substances included in the First Schedule
            (other than thermolabile substances), with a distinguishing
            mark or other indication indicating that the poison is to be
            stored in a cupboard reserved solely for the storage of
            poisons.
 (5) The container of a poison shall —
        (a) be impervious to the poison and sufficiently stout to
            prevent leakage arising from the ordinary risks of handling
            and transport; and
        (b) where the poison is a liquid of a quantity of less than 2.5
            litres, not being a liquid made up ready to be taken for the
            internal treatment of human ailments and not being a local
            anaesthetic for injection in the treatment of human
            ailments, be a bottle the outer surface of which is fluted
            vertically with ribs or grooves recognisable by touch.

Storage of poisons in institutions
 31.—(1) The requirements contained in this rule shall apply to the
storage of poisons in institutions.
 (2) In any institution in which medicines are dispensed in a
dispensing or pharmaceutical department in charge of a person
appointed for the purpose, all poisons other than those issued for use
within the institution shall be stored in that department.
 (3) In any institution to which paragraph (2) does not apply all
poisons other than those issued for use within the institution shall be
stored —
        (a) in the charge of the person appointed for the purpose by the
            governing body or person in control of the institution; and



           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 21
      (b) in case of poisons which are included in the First Schedule
          either in a cupboard or drawer, or on a shelf, reserved
          solely for the storage of poisons.
 (4) Where a poison to which paragraph (3) applies is stored on a
shelf, the container of the poison shall be rendered distinguishable by
touch from the containers or articles other than poisons stored on the
same premises.
 (5) In every institution, every substance included in the
First Schedule (other than thermolabile substances) which is stored
in the wards shall be stored in a cupboard reserved solely for the
storage of poisons.
 (6) All places in which poisons are required by this rule to be stored
shall be inspected at regular intervals of time not exceeding 3 months
by a pharmacist or by some other person appointed for the purpose by
the governing body or person in control of the institution.
 32. [Deleted by S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]

Colouring of poisons
 33.—(1) It shall not be lawful to sell any poison included in the
Seventh Schedule and intended for use in agriculture or horticulture
for the destruction of bacteria, fungi, insects or vermin or as weed-
killer or for the preservation of buildings or other structures liable to
be destroyed by termites or other insects unless there has been added
to the poison a dye which is of a distinctive colour and which is
soluble in water if the poison intended to be used is dissolved or
mixed in water.
 (2) This rule shall not apply to —
      (a) lead arsenate paste or lead arsenate powder;
      (b) poisons which are of themselves of a distinctive colour;
      (c) sheep dips which are already of a distinctive colour; or
      (d) articles to be exported from Singapore to a place other than
          Malaysia.




          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 22   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
Preservation of records
 34. All books, records and orders required under the provisions of
the Act and of these Rules shall be preserved on the premises at which
the sale or supply was made for a period of 2 years from the date of
the sale or supply, or the date on which the last entry was made in the
book or record, whichever is the later.

Penalties
 35. Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with —
        (a) rule 23, 25, 26, 27 or 28 shall be guilty of an offence and
            shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            2 years or to both;
                                                         [S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]
                                                         [S 255/2026 wef 01/05/2026]

        (b) rule 33 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000;
                                                         [S 255/2026 wef 01/05/2026]

        (c) rule 5(2), 11(2), (3) and (4), 16, 22(1), 29, 30, 31 or 34 shall
            be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
            fine not exceeding $10,000; and
                                                         [S 255/2026 wef 01/05/2026]

        (d) rule 15 or 18 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
            on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000.
                                                         [S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]
                                                         [S 255/2026 wef 01/05/2026]


                              FIRST SCHEDULE
                                                   Rules 10 to 13, 22, 24, 26, 29 to 31

   SUBSTANCES FALLING WITHIN THE POISONS LIST TO WHICH
        SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS UNDER RULE 10 APPLY
Abacavir; its salts; its esters; their salts
Abciximab
Acamprosate; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed.   p. 23
                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Acebutolol; its salts
Aceclofenac
Acemetacin
Acepromazine; its salts
Acetanilide; alkyl acetanilides
Acetazolamide; its salts
Acetohexamide
Acetorphine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl
Acetylcarbromal
Acetyl cysteine
Acetyldigoxin
Acetyldihydrocodeine; its salts
Acetylmethadol; its salts
Acetylstrophanthidin
Acipimox
Acitretin
Aconite; alkaloids of; their quarternary compounds; their salts; except
substances containing less than 0.02% of the alkaloids of aconite
Acrivastine
Actinomycins; its salts; its esters; their salts
Acyclovir
Adalimumab
Adapalene
Adefovir dipivoxil
Adicillin
Adiphenine; its salts
Adrenaline; its salts; except when contained in preparations intended for external
application only or in inhalants (except inhalants in aerosol dispensers), rectal
preparations or preparations intended for use in the eye


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 24   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules               [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Adreno-corticotrophic hormone (ACTH)
Alatrofloxacin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Albendazole
Alclofenac
Alclometasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Alcuronium; its salts
Aldesleukin
Aldosterone
Alemtuzumab
Alendronic acid; its salts
Alfentanil
Alfuzosine; its salts
Algestone; its salts
Allobarbitone; its salts
Allopurinol; its salts
Allylisopropylacetylurea
Allyloestrenol
Allylprodine; its salts
Alminoprofen
Almitrine; its salts
Alosetron; its salts
Alphacetylmethadol; its salts
Alphachloralose
Alphadolone; its salts
Alphameprodine; its salts
Alphamethadol; its salts
Alpha-methylfentanyl
Alphaprodine; its salts
Alphaxalone


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 25
                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Alprazolam
Alprenolol; its salts
Alprostadil
Alseroxylon
Altretamine; which are intended for the treatment of human ailments
Alverine; its salts
Amantadine; its salts
Ambenonium; its salts
Ambroxol; its salts
Ambuside
Ambutonium; its salts
Ametazole; its salts
Amethocaine; its salts
Amidopyrine; its salts; amidopyrine sulphonates; their salts
Amifostine; its salts
Amikacin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Amiloride; its salts
Amineptine; its salts
Amino-alcohols esterified with benzoic acid, phenylacetic acid, phenylpropionic
acid, cinnamic acid or the derivatives of these acids except substances containing
less than 10% of esterified amino-alcohols; their salts
p-Aminobenzene-sulphonamide; its salts; derivatives of p-amino-benzene-
sulphonamide having any of the hydrogen atoms of the p-amino group or of the
sulphonamide group substituted by another radical; their salts; except when
contained in ointments or surgical dressings or in preparations for the prevention
and treatment of diseases in poultry
p-Aminobenzoic acid, esters of; their salts
Aminocaproic acid
2’ Amino-2’deoxykanamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Aminoglutethimide; its salts
(±)-cis-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phenyl-2-oxazoline


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 26    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Aminophylline
Aminopterin; its salts
Aminorex; its salts
p-Aminosalicylic acid; its salts
Amiodarone; its salts
Amisulpride
Amitriptyline; its salts
Amlodipine; its salts
Ammonium lactate
Amorolfine; its salts
Amoxycillin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Amphetamine; its salts
Amphomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Amphotericin B; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ampicillin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Amrinone; its salts
Amsacrine (M-AMSA)
Amylobarbitone; its salts
Amylocaine; its salts
Anagrelide; its salts
Anastrozole
Ancrod
Androgenic, oestrogenic and progestational substances, the following:
     Derivatives of stilbene, dibenzyl or naphthalene with oestrogenic activity;
their esters; their ethers; their salts
   Steroid compounds with androgenic or oestrogenic or progestational activity;
   their esters; their ethers; their salts
Androsterone
Angiotensin amide



            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                   Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 27
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Anileridine; its salts
Anistreplase
Antimonial poisons except substances containing less than the equivalent of 1%
of antimony trioxide
Apomorphine; its salts; except substances containing less than 0.2% of
apomorphine
Apraclonidine; its salts
Apramycin; its salts
Aprepitant
Aprobarbitone
Aprotinin
Aripiprazole
Arotinolol; its salts
Arsenical poisons, except substances containing less than the equivalent of
0.01% of arsenic trioxide and except dentifrices containing less than 0.5% of
acetarsol
Arsphenamine
Arteether
Artemether
Artemisinin
Artesunate; its salts
Articaine; its salts
L-Asparaginase
Aspoxicillin; its salts
Astemizole
Atazanavir; its salts
Atenolol; its salts
Atorvastatin; its salts
Atosiban; its salts
Atovaquone


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 28   1999 Ed.]                   Poisons Rules                   [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Atracurium; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Atropine; its quarternary compounds; its salts, except substances containing less
than 0.15% of atropine or not more than 1% of atropine methonitrate
Auranofin
Azacyclonol; its salts
Azaperone
Azapropazone
Azasetron; its salts
Azathioprine; its salts
Azelastine; its salts
Azidamphenicol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Azidocillin; its salts
Azithromycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Bacampicillin; its salts
Bacitracin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Baclofen
Bambermycin
Bambuterol; its salts
Barbitone; its salts
Barbituric acid; its salts; derivatives of barbituric acid; their salts; compounds of
barbituric acid, its salts; its derivatives, their salts, with any other substance
Basiliximab
Becaplermin
Beclamide
Beclomethasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Befunolol; its salts
Belladonna, alkaloids of; its quarternary compounds, their salts, except
substances containing less than 0.15% of the alkaloids of belladonna calculated
as hyoscyamine
Bemegride; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed.   p. 29
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Benactyzine; its salts; its quarternary compounds
Benapryzine; its salts
Bendrofluazide
Benethamine penicillin
Benfluorex; its salts
Benoxaprofen
Benperidol
Benserazide; its salts
Benzamidosalicylic acid; its salts
Benzathine penicillin
Benzbromarone
Benzethidine; its salts
Benzhexol; its salts
Benzilonium; its salts
Benzocaine
Benzoctamine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Benzoestrol
Benzoylmorphine; its salts
N-Benzoyl sulphanilamide
Benzphetamine; its salts
Benzquinamide; its salts
Benzthiazide
Benztropine and its homologues; their salts
Benzydamine; its salts
Benzylmorphine; its salts
Benzylpenicillin; its salts
Betacetylmethadol; its salts
Betahistine; its salts
Betameprodine; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 30   1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Betamethadol; its salts
Betamethasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Betaprodine; its salts
Betaxolol; its salts
Bethanechol; its salts
Bethanidine; its salts
Bevonium methyl sulphate
Bezafibrate
Bezitramide; its salts
Bicalutamide
Bifonazole
Bimatoprost
Biperiden; its salts
Bisoprolol; its salts
Bleomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Boldenone undecenoate
Bopindolol
Boric acid; sodium borate
Bosentan; its salts
Botulinum Toxin, when contained in preparations intended for treatment of
human ailments
Bretylium; its salts
Brimonidine; its salts
Brinzolamide
Bromazepam
Bromhexine; its salts
Bromocriptine; its salts
4-bromo-2, 5, -dimethoxy-α-methylphenethylamine
Bromvaletone


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules              [1999 Ed.   p. 31
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Brotizolam
Brucine; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except substances containing
less than 0.2% of brucine
Budesonide; its salts
Bufexamac
Buflomedil; its salts
Buformin; its salts
Bufotenine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Bumadizone calcium
Bumetanide
Bunazosin; its salts
Buphenine hydrochloride
Bupivacaine; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Bupranolol; its salts
Buprenorphine; its salts
Bupropion; its salts
Buserelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Buspirone; its salts
Busulphan; its salts
Butacaine; its salts
Butalbital
Butamirate; its salts
Butanilicaine; its salts
Butizide
Butobarbitone; its salts
Butoconazole; its salts
Butriptyline; its salts
Butropium bromide
Butyl aminobenzoate


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 32   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Cabergoline
Cabimicina; its salts; its esters; their salts
Calabar bean; alkaloids of; their quarternary compounds; their salts
Calcipotriol
Calcitonin, natural and synthetic
Calcium 5-alkyl-5-N-butyl-barbiturate
Calcium carbimide
Calcium dobesilate
Camazepam
Candesartan; its salts; its esters; their salts
Candicidin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Cannabinol and its tetrahydro derivatives, prepared wholly or partly by
synthesis; their 3-alkyl homologues; any ester or ether of any substance falling
within this item
Cannabis; the resin of cannabis; extracts of cannabis; tinctures of cannabis;
cannabin tannate
Cantharidin; except substances containing less than 0.01% of cantharidin
Cantharidates; except substances containing less than the equivalent of 0.01% of
cantharidin
Capecitabine
Capreomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Captodiame; its salts
Captopril
Caramiphen; its salts; except tablets containing not more than the equivalent of
7.5 milligrammes of caramiphen base, and liquid preparations containing not
more than the equivalent of 0.1% of caramiphen base
Carbachol
Carbamazepine
Carbenicillin; its salts
Carbenoxolone; its salts
Carbetocin


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                   Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 33
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Carbidopa
Carbimazole; its salts
Carbocisteine
Carboplatin
Carbromal
Carbutamide; its salts
Carfecillin; its salts
Carisoprodol
Carmustine
Carperidine; its salts
Carprofen
Carteolol; its salts
Carvedilol
Caspofungin; its salts
Cathine
Cathinone
Cefaclor; its salts
Cefadroxil; its salts
Cefatrizine; its salts
Cefdinir
Cefixime; its salts
Cefodizime; its salts
Cefoperazone; its salts
Cefotaxime
Cefotiam; its salts
Cefoxitin
Cefpirome; its salts
Cefprozil
Cefsulodin; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 34   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules                     [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Ceftazidime; its salts
Ceftibuten
Ceftizoxime; its salts
Ceftriaxone; its salts
Cefuroxime
Celecoxib
Cephalexin
Cephaloglycin
Cephaloram
Cephaloridine
Cephalosporins; its salts; its esters; their salts; that is to say, the antimicrobial
substances containing in their chemical structure a fused dihydrothiazine β-
lactam nucleus
Cephalothin
Cephaloxin
Cephazolin
Cephradine
Cerivastatin; its salts
Cetirizine; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Cetrorelix; its salts
Chenodeoxycholic acid
Chloral; its addition and its condensation products other than α-chloralose; their
molecular compounds; except when contained in the form of chloral hydrate, in
preparations intended for external application only and except when contained,
in the form of α-chloralose, in preparations intended for indoor use in the
destruction of rats or mice containing not more than 4% weight in weight, of α-
chloralose
Chlorambucil
Chloramphenicol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Chlordiazepoxide; its salts
Chlormadinone; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed.   p. 35
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Chlormerodrin
Chlormethiazole; its salts
Chlormezanone; its salts
Chlormidazole; its salts
Chloroform; except substances containing not more than 5% of chloroform or
when in preparations not intended for the internal treatment of human aliments
Chloroquine; its salts
Chlorothiazide and other derivatives of benzo-1,2,4-thiadiazine-7-sulphonamide
1,1-dioxide, whether hydrogenated or not
Chlorpheniramine; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Chlorphenoxamine; its salts
Chlorphentermine; its salts
Chlorpromazine; its salts
Chlorpropamide; its salts
Chlorprothixene and other derivatives of 9-methylenethiazanthene; their esters;
their salts
Chlorquinaldol
Chlortetracycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Chlorthalidone and other derivatives of o-chlorobenzene sulphonamide
Chlorzoxazone
Cholestyramine
Chorionic gonadotrophin
Chromomycin A; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ciclacillin; its salts
Ciclopirox; its salts
Cilastatin; its salts
Cilazapril
Cilostazol
Cimetidine; its salts
Cinchocaine; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 36   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules               [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Ciprofibrate
Ciprofloxacin; its salts
Cisapride
Cisplatin
Citalopram; its salts
Citalopram; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Citicoline
Cladribine
Clarithromycin; its salts
Clavulanic acid; its salts
Clebopride
Clenbuterol
Clidinium; its salts
Clindamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Clioquinol
Clobazam
Clobenzorex; its salts
Clobetasol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Clobetasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Clobutinol; its salts
Clodronic acid; its salts
Clofazimine
Clofedanol; its salts
Clofibrate
Clomiphene; its salts
Clomipramine; its salts
Clomocycline; its salts
Clonazepam
Clonidine; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 37
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Clonitazene; its salts
Clopamide
Clopenthixol; its salts
Clopidogrel; its salts
Cloprostenol; its salts
Clorazepate; its salts
Clorexolone
Clorprenaline; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Clostebol; its salts
Clostridiopeptidase A
Clotiazepam
Clotrimazole
Cloxacillin benzathine
Cloxacillin; its salts
Cloxazolam
Cloxiquine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Clozapine; its salts
Coca, alkaloids of; their quarternary compounds; their salts, except substances
containing less than 0.1% of the alkaloids of coca
Cocaine; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except substances containing
less than 0.1% of cocaine
Codeine; its esters and ethers; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except
substances containing less than 1.5% of codeine
Codoxime; its salts
Colchicum; alkaloids of; their salts, their quarternary compounds; their salts
Colestipol; its salts
Colimycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Colistin; its salts
Coniine, its quarternary compounds; their salts; except substances containing
less than 0.1% of coniine


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 38   1999 Ed.]                   Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Corticorelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Corticotrophins, natural and synthetic
Cortisone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, prednisolone; derivatives of these with
hydroxyl, alkyl groups or halogens as substituents, their salts; their esters; their
ethers and salts of such esters and ethers
Cotarnine, its quarternary compounds; their salts; except substances containing
less than 0.2% of cotarnine
Crisantaspase
Cropropamide
Crotethamide
Curare, alkaloids of; curare bases; their quarternary compounds; their salts
4-Cyano-2-dimethylamino-4, 4-diphenylbutane; its salts
4-Cyano-1-methyl-4-phenylpiperidine; its salts
Cyclandelate
Cyclarbamate
Cyclobarbitone
Cyclofenil
Cyclopenthiazide
Cyclopentolate; its salts
Cyclophosphamide
Cycloserine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Cyclosporin
Cyclothiazide
Cycrimine; its salts
Cyproterone; its salts
Cytarabine; its salts
Dacarbazine
Daclizumab
Dalfopristin
Dalteparin; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed.   p. 39
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Danazol
Danthron
Dantrolene; its salts
Dapsone
Daunorubicin; its salts
Deanol; its salts
Debrisoquine; its salts
Deferiprone
Deferoxamine; its salts
Dehydroemetine; its salts
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA); its salts
Delmadinone; its salts
Delorazepam
Demecarium; its salts
Demeclocycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Demoxytocin; its isomers
Deoxycortone; its salts
Deptropine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Deserpidine
Desferrioxamine mesylate
Desfluorotriamcinolone
Desflurane
Desipramine; its salts
Deslanoside
Desmopressin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Desogestrel
Desomorphine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Desonide; its salts
Desoxymethasone


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 40   1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules               [CAP. 234, R 1
                           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Dexamethasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Dexamphetamine; its salts
Dexetimide; its salts
Dexfenfluramine; its salts
Dexrazoxane
Dextromethorphan; its salts; except substances containing less than 1.5% of
dextromethorphan
Dextromoramide; its salts
Dextropropoxyphene; its salts
Dextrorphan; its salts
Dextrothyroxine sodium
Diacetylmorphine; its salts
Diacetylnalorphine; its salts
Diamino-diphenylsulphones; their salts; their derivatives
Diamorphine; its salts
Diampromide; its salts
Diazepam and other compounds containing the chemical structure of dihydro-1,
4-benzodiazepine substituted to any degree; their salts
Diazoxide; its salts
Dibekacin; its salts
Dibenzepin; its salts
Dichloralphenazone
Dichlorophenarsine; its salts
Dichlorphenamide; its salts
Diclofenac; its salts
Dicloxacillin; its salts
Dicyclomine; its salts
Didanosine
Dienoestrol



            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed.   p. 41
                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Diethanolamine fusidate
Diethylcarbamazine; its salts
Diethylpropion; its salts
Diethylthiambutene; its salts
N, N-Diethyltryptamine (DET)
Difenoxin; its salts
Diflucortolone; its salts
Diflunisal
Digitalis, glycosides of; other active principles of digitalis
Dihydrallazine; its salts
Dihydroartemisin
Dihydrocodeine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Dihydrocodeinone; its salts
Dihydroergotamine; its salts
Dihydroergotoxine; its salts
Dihydromorphine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Dihydrostreptomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
3-(3, 4-Dihydroxyphenyl)alanine; its salts
Diloxanide; its salts
Diltiazem; its salts
Dimenoxadole; its salts
Dimepheptanol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Dimercaprol
Dimethisoquin; its salts
Dimethisterone
Dimethothiazine; its salts
2, 5-Dimethoxyamphetamine
2, 5-Dimethoxy-4-bromoamphetamine(DOB)
2, 5-Dimethoxy-4-ethylamphetamine


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 42   1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
2, 5-Dimethoxy-α, 4-dimethylphenethylamine; its salts
3-(1, 2-Dimethylheptyl)-1-hydroxy-7, 8, 9, 10-tetrahydro-6, 6, 9-trimethyl-6H
dibenzo [b,d] pyran (DMHP)
Dimethyl sulphoxide
Dimethylthiambutene; its salts
N, N-dimethyltryptamine (DMT); its salts
Dimethyltubocurarine; its salts
Dinitronaphthols
Dinitrothymols
Dinoprost; its salts
Dinoprostone
Dioxaphetyl butyrate; its salts
Diperodon; its salts
Diphenidol; its salts
Diphenoxylate; its salts
Dipipanone; its salts
Dipivefrin; its salts
Diprophylline; its salts
Dipyridamole
Dipyrone
Disopyramide; its salts
Distigmine; its salts
Disulfiram
Disulphamide
Dithienylallylamines; dithienyl-alkylallylamines; their salts
Dobutamine; its salts
Docetaxel
Domperidone
Donepezil; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed.   p. 43
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Dopamine; its salts
Dorzolamide; its salts
Dothiepin; its salts
Doxapram; its salts
Doxazosin; its salts
Doxepin; its salts
Doxofylline; its salts
Doxorubicin; its salts
Doxycycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Droperidol
Drosperinone
Drostanolone; its salts
Drotebanol
Drotrecogin alpha
Dutasteride
Dydrogesterone
Dyflos
Ebastine
Ecgonine; its esters and ethers; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except
substances containing less than the equivalent of 0.1% of ecgonine
Econazole; its salts
Ecothiopate iodine
Ectylurea
Edoxudine
Edrophonium; its salts
Efavirenz
Eletriptan; its salts
Embutramide
Emedastine; its salts; its esters; their salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 44   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Emepronium; its salts
Emetine; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except substances containing
less than 1% of emetine
Emylcamate
Enalapril; its salts
Enflurane
Enoxaparin; its salts
Entacapone
Eperisone; its salts
Ephedrine; its optical isomers; its quarternary compounds; its salts except when
contained in liquid preparations (other than aerosol dispensers) or preparations
not intended for the internal treatment of human ailments and except solid
preparations containing less than 10% of ephedrine or its optical isomers
otherwise than in an inert diluents
Epicillin; its salts
Epimestrol
Epinastine; its salts
Epioestriol
Epirubicin; its salts
Epithiazide
Eplerenone; its salts
Epoprostenol; its salts
Eprosartan; its salts; its esters; their salts
Eptifibatide
Erdosteine; its salts
Ergometrine; its salts
Ergot, alkaloids of; whether hydrogenated or not; their homologues; their
quarternary compounds; their esters; their salts
Ergotamine; its salts
Ergotoxine; its salts
Ertapenem; its salts


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed.   p. 45
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Erythromycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Erythropoietin, natural and synthetic
Esmolol; its salts
Estazolam
Estramustine; its salts
Etafedrine; its salts
Etanercept
Ethacrynic acid; its salts
Ethambutol; its salts
Ethamivan
Ethamsylate
Ethchlorvynol
Ethebenecid
Ethiazide
Ethinamate
Ethionamide; its salts
Ethinyloestradiol
Ethisterone
Ethoglucid
Ethoheptazine; its salts
Ethpropropazine; its salts
Ethosuximide
Ethotoin
Ethylacetanilide
N-Ethylamphetamine
Ethyl biscoumacetate
(±)-4-ethyl-2,5-dimethoxy—phenethylamine
Ethyl loflazepate
Ethyl methylthiambutene


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 46   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
(±)-N-ethyl-∝-methyl-3,4-(methylenedioxy)phenethylamine
Ethylmorphine, its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts except substances
containing less than 0.2% of ethylmorphine
Ethylnoradrenaline; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Ethyl p-piperidinoacetylaminobenzoate
Ethyloestrenol
Ethylstibamine
Ethynodiol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Eticyclidine
Etidronic acid; its salts; which are intended for the treatment of human ailments
Etodolac
Etofenamate
Etofibrate
Etomidate; its salts
Etonitazene; its salts
Etonogestrel
Etoposide; its salts
Etoricoxib
Etorphine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Etoxeridine; its salts
Etretinate
Etryptamine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ezetimibe
Famciclovir
Famotidine
Famprofazone
Fazadinium; its salts
Felbinac
Felodipine


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed.   p. 47
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Felypressin
Fencamfamin; its salts
Fenclofenac
Fenetylline; its salts
Fenfluramine; its salts
Fenofibrate
Fenoprofen; it salts
Fenoterol; its salts
Fenpipramide; its salts
Fenpiprane; its salts
Fenproporex; its salts
Fentanyl; its salts
Fenticonazole; its salts
Feprazone
Fexofenadine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Filgrastim
Finasteride
Flavomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flavoxate; its salts
Flecainide; its salts
Floxuridine
Fluanisone
Fluclorolone; its salts
Flucloxacillin; its salts
Fluconazole
Flucytosine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fludarabine phosphate
Fludiazepam
Fludrocortisone; its salts; its esters; their salts


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 48   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules              [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Flufenamic acid; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flugestone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flumazenil
Flumedroxone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flumethasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flumethiazide
Flunisolide
Flunitrazepam
Fluocinolone
Fluocinolone acetonide
Fluocinonide
Fluocortolone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fluopromazine; its salts
Fluoroacetamide
Fluoroacetanilide
Fluorometholone
Fluorouracil; its salts
Fluothane
Fluoxetine; its salts
Fluoxymesterone
Flupenthixol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fluperolone; its salts
Fluphenazine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fluprednidene; its salts
Fluprednisolone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fluprostenol; its salts
Flurandrenolone
Flurazepam; its salts
Flurbiprofen; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules             [1999 Ed.   p. 49
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Fluspirilene
Flutamide
Fluticasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fluvastatin; its salts
Fluvoxamine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH)
Fondaparinux; its salts
Formestane
Formosulphathiazole
Formoterol; its salts
Foscarnet; its salts
Fosfestrol; its salts
Fosfomycin; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Fosinopril; its salts
Fotemustine
Framycetin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Frusemide
Fumagillin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Furaltadone
Furazolidone
Furethidine; its salts
Fusafungine
Fusidic acid; its salts; its esters; their salts
Gabapentin
Gadodiamide
Gadopentetic acid; its salts
Gadoversetamide
Galanthamine; its salts
Gallamine; its salts; its quarternary compounds


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 50   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Ganciclovir; its salts
Ganirelix; its salts
Gatifloxacin; its salts; its isomers; its esters; their salts
Gefitinib
Gelsemium, alkaloids of, its quarternary compounds; their salts; except
substances containing less than 0.1% of the alkaloid of gelsemium
Gemcitabine; its salts
Gemeprost
Gemfibrozil; its salts; its esters and salts of such esters
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin
Gentamicin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Gestodene
Gestrinone
Gestronol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Glafenine; its salts
Glibenclamide; its salts
Glibornuride; its salts
Gliclazide
Glimepiride
Glipizide
Gliquidone
Glucagon; its salts
Glutethimide; its salts
Glyceryl trinitrate
Glycopyrrolate
Glymidine
Gonadorelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Goserelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Gramicidins; its salts; its esters; their salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules                      [1999 Ed.   p. 51
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Granisetron; its salts
Grepafloxacin; its salts Griseofulvin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Guanethidine; its salts
Guanidines, the following:
  polymethylene diguanidines; di-p-anisyl-p-phenethylguanidine
Guanoclor; its salts
Guanoxan; its salts
Hachimycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Halazepam
Halcinonide
Halofantrine; its salts
Halometasone
Haloperidol and other 4-substituted derivatives of N-(3-p-fluorobenzoylpropyl)
piperidine
Haloprogin
Halothane
Haloxazolam
Heparin
Heparin calcium
Heptabarbitone
Heptaminol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Hexachlorophene
Hexamethonium; its salts
Hexapropymate
Hexobarbitone; its salts
Hexoestrol; its salts
3-Hexyl-1-hydroxy-7, 8, 9, 10-tetrahydro-6, 6, 9-trimethyl-6 H-dibenzo [b,d]
pyran (parahexyl)
Homatropine; its quarternary compounds, their salts; except substances
containing less than 0.15% of homatropine


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 52   1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                      [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Human blood products
Human growth hormones
Hydrallazine; its salts
Hydrazines, benzyl, phenethyl and phenoxyethyl; their &alpha;-methyl
derivatives; acyl derivatives of any of the foregoing substances comprised in this
item; salts of any compounds comprised in this item
Hydrochloric acid
Hydrochlorothiazide
Hydrocodone; its salts
Hydrocortisone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts except in dermatological
preparations of hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone acetate containing not more
than 1% of hydrocortisone
Hydromorphinol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Hydromorphone; its salts, its esters and ethers; their salts
Hydroxychloroquine; its salts
Hydroxycinchoninic acids; derivatives of; their salts, their esters, except
substances containing less than 3% of hydroxycinchoninic acid or a derivative
thereof
Hydroxy-N, N-dimethyltryptamines; their esters or ethers; any salt of any
substance falling within this item
Hydroxypethidine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Hydroxyprogesterone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Hydroxyquinoline; its salts; its derivatives; their salts
Hydroxyurea
Hydroxyzine; its salts
Hygromycin B
Hyoscine; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except substances containing
less than 0.15% of hyoscine
Hyoscyamine; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except substances
containing less than 0.15% of hyoscyamine
Ibacitabine
Ibandronic acid; its salts


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed.   p. 53
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Ibuprofen
Idarubicin; its salts
Idoxuridine
Idrocilamide
Ifenprodil; its salts
Ifosfamide
Iloprost; its salts; its esters; their salts
Imatinib; its salts
Imidapril; its salts
Imipenem
Imipramine; its salts
Imiquimod
Indapamide; its salts
Indinavir; its salts
Indobufen; its salts
Indomethacin; its salts
Infliximab
Insulins
Interferons
Ipratropium; its salts
Iprindole; its salts
Iproniazid; its salts
Irbesartan
Irinotecan; its salts
Isepamicin; its salts
Isoaminile; its salts
Isocarboxazid; its salts
Isoconazole; its salts
Isoetharine; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 54     1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Isoflurane
Iso-lysergamide
Isomethadone (isoamidone); its salts
Isoniazid; its salts; its derivatives; their salts
Isoprenaline; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Isopropamide; its salts
Isopyrin
Isosorbide; its salts
Isoxicam
Isoxsuprine; its salts
Isradipine
Itopride; its salts
Itraconazole
Ivermectin
Jaborandi, alkaloids of; its quarternary compounds; their salts, except substances
containing less than 0.5% of the alkaloids of jaborandi
Kanamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Kanendomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ketamine; its salts
Ketanserin; its salts
Ketazolam
Ketobemidone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Ketoconazole
Ketoprofen; its isomers
Ketorolac; its salts
Ketotifen; its salts
Khellin
Labetalol; its salts
Lacidipine


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 55
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Lafutidine
Lamivudine
Lamotrigine
Lanreotide; its salts; its esters; their salts
Lansoprazole
Latanoprost
Laudexium; its salts
Lead acetate; compounds of lead with acids from fixed oils
Lefetamine
Lenograstim
Lepirudin
Lercanidipine; its salts
Letrozole
Leuprorelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Levamisole; its salts
Levamphetamine; its salts
Levetiracetam; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Levobunolol; its salts
Levodopa
Levodropropizine
Levomethamphetamine; its salts
Levomethorphan; its salts
Levomoramide; its salts
Levonorgestrel
Levophenacylmorphan; its salts, its esters and ethers; their salts
Levorphanol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Levosimendan
Lidoflazine
Lignocaine; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 56   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules                     [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Lincomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts; that is to say, the S-alkyl derivatives
of 6, 8-dideoxy-6-trans-(4-alkyl-L-2-pyrrolidine carboxamido)-1-thio-D-
erythro-α-D-galacto-octo-pyranoside and N-methylpyrrolidine analogues
thereof
Liothyronine sodium
Lisinopril
Lisuride; its salts
Lithium carbonate
Lobelia, alkaloids of; its quarternary compounds; their salts except substances
containing less than 0.5% of the alkaloids of lobelia
Lodoxamide; its salts
Lofepramine; its salts
Lomefloxacin; its salts
Lomustine
Lonazolac; its salts
Loperamide; its salts
Lopinavir
Loprazolam; its salts
Loracarbef
Loratadine; its isomers
Lorazepam
Lormetazepam
Losartan; its salts
Loteprednol; its salts
Lovastatin
Loxoprofen; its salts
Lumefantrine; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Luteinising hormones
Lutropin alpha
Lymecycline


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules                      [1999 Ed.   p. 57
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Lynoestrenol
Lypressin
Lysergide and other N-alkyl derivatives of lysergamide; their salts, simple or
complex; their quarternary compounds
Lysergic acid diethylamide
Lysergamide
Lysuride; its salts; its esters
Mafenide; its salts
Mangafodipir; its salts
Mannomustine; its salts
Maprotiline; its salts
Mazindol
Mebanazine; its salts
Mebendazole
Mebeverine; its salts
Mebezonium; its salts
Mebutamate
Mecamylamine; its salts
Meclofenamic acid; its salts
Meclofenoxate; its salts
Mecloqualone; its salts
Medazepam
Medigoxin
Medrogestone
Medroxyprogesterone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Mefenamic acid; its salts; its esters; their salts
Mefenorex
Mefloquine; its salts
Mefruside


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 58   1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Megestrol; its salts
Melengestrol; its salts
Melitracen; its salts
Meloxicam
Melphalan
Memantine; its salts
Menotrophine
Mepenzolate; its salts
Mephenesin; its esters
Mephentermine; its salts
Mepivacaine; its salts
Meprobamate
Mequitazine
Mercaptopurine; its salts; derivatives of mercaptopurine; their salts
Mercurous chloride when contained in medicinal preparations
Mesalazine
Mescaline, and other derivatives of phenethylamine formed by substitution in the
aromatic ring; their salts
Mesocarb
Mesoridazine
Mestanolone
Mesterolone
Mestranol
Metabutethamine; its salts
Metaraminol; its salts
Metaxalone
Metazocine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Metergoline
Metformin; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules              [1999 Ed.   p. 59
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Methacycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Methadone (amidone); its salts
Methadyl acetate; its salts
Methallenoestril
Methandienone
Methandriol
Methaqualone; its salts
Metharbitone
Methcathinone; its salts
Methdilazine; its salts
Methenolone; its salts
Methicillin; its salts
Methimazole
Methisoprinol
Methixene; its salts
Methocarbamol
Methohexitone; its salts
Methoin
Methoserpidine
Methotrexate; its salts
Methotrimeprazine; its salts
Methoxamine; its salts
Methoxsalen
2-methoxy-∝-methyl-4, 5-(methylenedioxy)phenethylamine
5-methoxy-3, 4-methylene-dioxyamphetamine
p-Methoxy- α-methylphenethylamine
Methoxyphenamine; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Methsuximide
Methyclothiazide


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 60   1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                    [CAP. 234, R 1
                       FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Methylaminoheptane; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Methylamphetamine; its salts
Methyldesorphine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Methyldihydromorphine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Methyldopa
Methyldopate; its salts
3, 4-Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA)
3, 4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)
Methylephedrine; its salts
Methylergometrine; its salts
3-Methylfentanyl and its isomeric forms
(±)-N-[∝-methyl-3,4-(methylenedioxy)phenethyl]hydroxylamine
2-Methyl-3-morpholino-1,1-diphenylpropane carboxylic acid; its salts; its
esters; their salts
Methylpentynol; its esters and other derivatives
α-Methylphenethylamine, β-methylphenethylamine and α-ethylphenethylamine;
any synthetic compound structurally derived from any of those substances by
substitution in the aliphatic part or by ring closure therein (or by both such
substitution and such closure) or by substitution in the aromatic ring (with or
without substitution at the nitrogen atom), except ephedrine, its optical isomers
and N-substituted derivatives, fenfluramine, hydroxy-amphetamine,
methoxyphenamine, phenylpropanolamine, pholedrine and prenylamine; any
salt of any substance falling within this item
Methylphenidate; its salts
Methylphenobarbitone
1-methyl-4-phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylic acid, esters of; their salts
1-methyl-4-phenyl-4-piperidinol propionate (MPPP)
Methylprednisolone; its salts
Methylsulphonal
Methyltestosterone
Methylthiouracil



           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules              [1999 Ed.   p. 61
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Methyprylone; its salts
Methysergide; its salts
Metipranolol; its salts
Metoclopramide; its salts
Metolazone
Metomidate; its salts
Metopon; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Metoprolol; its salts
Metronidazole; its salts
Mexiletine; its salts
Mianserin; its salts
Mibefradil; its salts
Miconazole; its salts
Micronomicin; its salts
Midazolam; its salts
Midodrine; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Miglitol
Milrinone; its salts
Miltefosine
Minocycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Minoxidil; its salts
Mirtazapine
Misoprostol
Mithramycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Mitobronitol
Mitomycins; its salts; its esters; their salts
Mitopodozide; its salts
Mitotane
Mitoxantrone; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 62   1999 Ed.]                   Poisons Rules              [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Moclobemide
Moexipril; its salts
Molgramostim
Molindone; its salts
Mometasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Monofluoroacetic acid; its salts
Montelukast; its salts
Morazone; its salts
Morinamide; its salts
Moroxydine; its salts
Morpheridine; its salts
Morphine; its esters and ethers; their quarternary compounds; their salts
Morphine methylbromide; morphine N-oxide and other pentavalent nitrogen
morphine derivatives
Moxalactam; its salts
Moxifloxacin; its salts
Moxonidine
Mupirocin; its salts
Muromonab-CD3
Mustine and any other N-substituted derivatives of di-(2-chloroethyl) amine,
their salts
Mycophenolic acid; its salts; its derivatives; their salts
Myrophine; its salts
Myrtecaine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Nabumetone
Nadolol
Nadroparin; its salts
Nafarelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Nafcillin; its salts



            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed.   p. 63
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Naftidrofuryl; its salts
Naftifine; its salts
Nalbuphine; its salts
Nalidixic acid; its salts; its esters and salts of such esters
Nalorphine; its salts
Naloxone; its salts
Nandrolone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Naphazoline; its salts; when contained in eye preparations
Naproxen; its salts
Naratriptan; its salts
Natamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Nateglinide
Nealbarbitone
Nebivolol; its salts
Nedocromil; its salts
Nefazodone; its salts
Nefopam; its salts
Nelfinavir; its salts; its esters; their salts
Neoarsphenamine; its salts
Neomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Neostigmine; its salts
Netilmicin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Nevirapine; its salts
Nialamide; its salts
Niaprazine
Nicardipine; its salts
Nicergoline
Nicocodine; its salts
Nicodicodine; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 64   1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Nicomorphine; its salts
Nicotine; its salts; its quarternary compounds; their salts
Nicoumalone
Nifedipine
Nifuroxazide
Nifurzide
Nikethamide
Nilvadipine
Nimesulide
Nimetazepam
Nimodipine
Nimorazole; its salts
Niridazole
Nisoldipine
Nitrazepam
Nitrendipine
Nitrofurantoin; its salts
Nitrofurazone
Nitromin; its salts
m-Nitrophenol; o-nitrophenol; p-nitrophenol
Nitroprusside; its salts
Nitroxoline
Nizatidine
Nomegestrol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Nometasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Nomifensine; its salts
Noracymethadol; its salts




             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed.   p. 65
                           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Noradrenaline; its salts; except when contained in preparations intended for
external application only or in inhalants; rectal preparations or preparations
intended for use in the eye
Noramidopyrine; its salts; noramidopyrine sulphonates; their salts
Norcodeine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Nordazepam
Norelgestromin
Norethandrolone
Norethisterone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Norethynodrel
Norfloxacin; its salts; its esters and salts of such esters
Norgestimate
Norgestrel
Norlevorphanol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Normethadone; its salts
Normorphine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Norpipanone; its salts
Nortriptyline; its salts
Novobiocin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Noxythiolin
Nux vomica; except substances containing less than 0.2% of strychnine
Nystatin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Octacosactrin
Octreotide; its salts; its esters, their salts
Oestradiol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Oestriol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Oestrogenic substances, conjugated
Oestrone
Ofloxacin; its salts; its isomers; their salts



             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 66      1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Olanzapine
Oleandomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Olopatadine
Olsalazine; its salts
Omeprazole; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Ondansetron; its salts
Opipramol; its salts
Opium
Orciprenaline; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Orlistat
Ornidazole; its salts
Orphenadrine; its salts
Orthocaine; its salts
Oseltamivir; its salts
Ouabain
Oxaliplatin
Oxamniquine
Oxandrolone
Oxantel; its salts
Oxazepam; its salts
Oxazolam
Oxcarbazepine
Oxedrine tartrate
Oxethazaine; its salts
Oxidronic acid; its salts
Oxolinic acid
Oxophenarsine; its salts
Oxpentifylline
Oxprenolol; its salts


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed.   p. 67
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Oxybuprocaine; its salts
Oxybutynin; its salts
Oxycodone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Oxymesterone
Oxymetholone; its salts
Oxymorphone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Oxypertine; its salts
Oxyphenbutazone
Oxyphencyclimine; its salts; its esters
Oxyphenonium; its salts
Oxytetracycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Oxytocins, natural and synthetic
Paclitaxel; which are intended for the treatment of human ailments
Pamidronate; its salts
Pancuronium; its salts
Pantoprazole
Papaverine; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except substances containing
less than 1% of papaverine
Paraldehyde
Paramethadione
Paramethasone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Paramethoxyamphetamine
Parecoxib; its salts
Pargyline; its salts
Paricalcitol
Parnaparin; its salts
Paromomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Paroxetine; its salts
Pecilocin


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 68   1999 Ed.]                   Poisons Rules                   [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Pefloxacin; its salts
Pemoline; its salts
Pempidine; its salts
Penamecillin
Penciclovir
Penethamate; its salts
Penfluridol
Penicillamine; its salts
Penicillin, any antimicrobial acid, any salt thereof, or any derivative which is
obtained therefrom, which may be shown on chemical and physical examination
to contain in its structure a fused thiazolidine β-lactam nucleus; their esters; their
salts
Penicillin V; its salts; its esters; their salts
Pentaerythritol tetranitrate
Pentamidine; its salts
Pentazocine; its salts
Penthienate; its salts
Pentobarbitone; its salts
Pentolinium; its salts
Pergolide; its salts
Perhexiline; its salts
Pericyazine
Perindopril; its salts
Perphenazine; its salts
Pethidine; its salts
Phenacaine; its salts
Phenacemide
Phenacetin
Phenadoxone; its salts
Phenaglycodol


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 69
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Phenampromide; its salts
Phenazocine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Phenbenicillin; its salts
Phenbutrazate; its salts
Phencyclidine; its salts
Phendimetrazine; its salts
Phenelzine; its salts
Phenethicillin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Phenethylamine; its salts1-phenethyl-4-phenyl-4-piperidinolacetate (PEPAP)
Phenetidylphenacetin; its salts
Pheneturide
Phenformin; its salts
Phenglutarimide; its salts
Phenindione
Phenmetrazine; its salts
Phenobarbitone; its salts
Phenomorphan; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Phenoperidine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Phenothiazine, derivatives of; their esters; their salts and its molecular
compounds except the following:
  Dimethoxanate; its salts
  Isothipendyl; its salts
  Mequitazine
  Methdilazine; its salts
  Oxomemazine; its salts
  Promethazine; its salts
  Pyrathiazine; its salts
  Thiazinamium methylsulphate
Phenoxybenzamine; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 70   1999 Ed.]                   Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Phenoxymethylpenicillin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Phenoxypropazine; its salts
Phenprocoumon
Phensuximide
Phentermine; its salts
Phentolamine; its salts
Phenylbutazone; its salts
2-Phenylcinchoninic acid; 2-salicylcinchoninic acid; their salts; their esters
N-Phenylethyl anthranilic acid
5-Phenylhydantoin; its alkyl and aryl derivatives; their salts
Phenylmethyl barbituric acid
4-Phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylic acid ethyl esters; its salts
Phenylpropanolamine; its salts
Phenytoin; its salts
Pholcodine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts, except substances
containing less than 1.5% of pholcodine
Phthalylsulphacetamide
Phthalylsulphathiazole; its salts
Physostigmine; its salts
Picrotoxin
Pilocarpine; its salts
Pimecrolimus
Piminodine; its salts
Pimozide; its salts
Pinazepam
Pioglitazone; its salts
Pipecuronium; its salts
Pipemidic acid
Pipenzolate; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed.   p. 71
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Piperacillin; its salts
Piperazine oestrone sulphate
Piperidolate; its salts
Piper methysticum (kava-kava), the active constituents of; kava pyrones
(kavalactones); their quarternary compounds; their salts
Pipothiazine; its salts
Pipradrol; its salts; its esters and ethers
Piracetam
Pirenoxine; its salts
Pirenzepine; its salts
Piribedil
Piritramide; its salts
Piroxicam
Pirprofen
Pituitary gland, the active principles of
Pivmecillinam; its salts
Pizotifen; its salts
Poisonous venom, animal origin
Poldine methylsulphate
Polidexide; its salts
Polymethylene-bistrimethylammonium salts
Polymyxins; its salts; its esters; their salts
Polyoestradiol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Polythiazide
Pomegranate, alkaloids of; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except
substances containing less than 0.5% of the alkaloids of pomegranate
Poppy-straw and concentrate of poppy-straw
Practolol; its salts
Pralidoxime; its salts



            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 72   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules              [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Pravastatin; its salts
Prazepam
Praziquantel
Prazosin; its salts
Prednicarbate
Prednisolone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Prednisone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Prenoxdiazine; its salts; its esters, their salts
Prenylamine; its salts
Prilocaine; its salts
Primaquine; its salts
Primidone
Prindolol
Probenecid
Probucol
Procainamide; its salts
Procaine; its salts
Procaine penicillin
Procarbazine; its salts
Procaterol; its salts
Prochlorperazine; its salts
Procyclidine; its salts
Profenone; its salts
Progesterone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Proguanil; its salts
Proheptazine; its salts
Prolintane; its salts
Promazine; its salts
Promestriene


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed.   p. 73
                           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Promoxolane
Pronethalol; its salts
Propafenone; its salts
Propanidid
Properidine; its salts
Propicillin; its salts
Propiomazine; its salts
Propiram; its salts
Propiverine; its salts
Propofol
Propoxyphene; its salts
Propranolol; its salts
Propylhexedrine; its salts
Propylthiouracil
Propyromazine; its salts
Proquamezine; its salts
Proquazone
Prostaglandins
Protamine sulphate
Prothionamide; its salts
Prothipendyl; its salts
Protirelin; its salts
Protriptyline; its salts
Proxymetacaine; its salts
Proxyphylline
Psilocin; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Psilocybine
Pyrazinamide; its salts
Pyridinolcarbamate


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 74   1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                   [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Pyridostigmine; its salts
Pyrimethamine
Pyritinol; its salts
L-Pyroglutamyl-L-histidyl-L-proline amide
Pyrovalerone
Quebracho alkaloids of, its quarternary compounds; their salts
Quetiapine; its salts Quinagolide; its salts
Quinalbarbitone; its salts
Quinapril; its salts
Quinestradol
Quinestrol
Quinethazone
Quinidine; its salts
Quinidine phenylethylbarbiturate
Quinine; its quarternary compounds, their salts
Quinupristin
Rabeprazole; its salts
Racemethorphan; its salts
Radioactive iodine, salts of; when contained in preparations intended for the
treatment of human ailments
Racemoramide; its salts
Racemorphan; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Radioactive iodine, salts of; when contained in preparations intended for the
treatment of human ailments
Rafoxanide
Raloxifene; its salts
Ramipril
Ranitidine; its salts
Rasburicase



             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed.   p. 75
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Raubasine
Rauwolfia, alkaloids of; their quarternary compounds; derivatives of alkaloids of
rauwolfia; their salts
Razoxane
Reboxetine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Remifentanil; its salts
Rescinnamine
Reserpine
Residronic acid; its salts
Reteplase
13-cis Retinoic acid
Reviparin; its salts
Ribavirin
Rifamide; its salts
Rifampicin
Rifamycins; its salts; its esters; their salts; that is to say, a group of related
antimicrobial microlactans, either produced by the growth of streptomyces
mediterranei or by modification of such products, and containing the chemical
structure of 11-acetoxy-7, 9, 15-trihydroxy-13-methoxy-2, 6, 8, 10, 12-
pentamethyl-pentadeca-2, 4, 14, trienoic acid amide, attached by the nitrogen
atom and by the oxygen atom in the 15 position respectively to the 7 and 2-
positions of a 5, 6, 9-trioxygenated 2, 4-dimethyl-1-oxonaphtho (2,1b) furan
Rilmenidine; its salts
Riluzole
Rimezolone
Rimiterol; its salts
Risperidone
Ristocetin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ritodrine; its salts
Ritonavir
Rituximab


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 76   1999 Ed.]                   Poisons Rules               [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Rivastigmine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Rizatriptan; its salts; its esters; their salts
Rocuronium; its salts
Rofecoxib
Rolicyclidine
Rolitetracycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ropinirole; its salts
Ropivacaine; its salts
Rosiglitazone; its salts
Rosoxacin
Rosuvastatin
Roxatidine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Roxithromycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Sabadilla, alkaloids of; its quarternary compounds; their salts except substances
containing less than 1% of the alkaloid of sabadilla
Salazosulphadimidine
Salbutamol; its salts
Salmefamol
Salmeterol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Santonin
Saquinavir; its salts
Savin, oil of
Secbutobarbitone; its salts
Secnidazole
Selegiline; its salts
Sertaconazole; its salts
Sertraline; its salts
Sevoflurane
Sibutramine; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                       [1999 Ed.   p. 77
                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Sildenafil; its salts
Silver sulphadiazine
Simfibrate
Simvastatin
Sirolimus
Sisomicin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Sodium apolate
Sodium aurothiomalate
Sodium cromoglycate
Sodium fluoride; which are intended for the treatment of human ailments
Sodium picosulphate
Sodium valproate
Solanaceous alkaloids, their quarternary compounds; their salts; not otherwise
included in this Schedule, except substances containing less than 0.5% of
solanaceous alkaloids calculated as hyoscyamine
Somatostatin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Somatropin, natural and synthetic
Sotalol; its salts
Sparfloxacin
Spectinomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Spiramycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Spironolactone
Stanolone
Stanozolol
Stavesacre, alkaloids of; its quarternary compounds; their salts except substances
containing less than 0.2% of the alkaloids of stavesacre
Stavudine
Stilboestrol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Streptokinase
Streptomycin and its derivatives; its salts; its esters; their salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 78   1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
                           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Streptozocin
Strontium [89Sr], salts of; when contained in preparations intended for the
treatment of human ailments
Strophanthus; glycosides of strophanthus
Strychnine; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except substances containing
less than 0.2% of strychnine
Styramate
Succinylsulphathiazole
Sufentanil
Sulbactam; its salts
Sulbenicillin; its salts
Sulfabenzamide
Sulfacytine
Sulfametopyrazine
Sulfametrole; its salts
Sulindac
Sulphabromomethazine
Sulphacetamide; its salts
Sulphachlorpyridazine
Sulphadiazine; its salts
Sulphadicramide
Sulphadimethoxine
Sulphadimidine; its salts
Sulphadoxine
Sulphaethidole
Sulphafurazole; its salts; its acetyl derivatives; their salts
Sulphaguanidine
Sulphaloxic acid
Sulphamerazine; its salts



             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed.   p. 79
                           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Sulphamethazine
Sulphamethizole
Sulphamethoxazole
Sulphamethoxydiazine
Sulphamethoxypyridazine
Sulphametopyrazine
Sulphamonomethoxine
Sulphamoxole
Sulphanilamide
Sulphaphenazole
Sulphapyrazole
Sulphapyridine
Sulphaquinoxaline
Sulphasalazine
Sulphasomidine
Sulphathiazole; its salts
Sulphathiourea
Sulphatolamide
Sulphaurea
Sulphinpyrazone
Sulphomyxin; its salts
Sulphonal; alkyl sulphonals
Sulpiride
Sulprostone
Sultamicillin; its salts
Sulthiame
Sumatriptan; its salts; its esters; their salts
Suprarenal gland medulla, the active principles of; their salts; except when
contained in preparations intended for external application only or in inhalants


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 80   1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                    [CAP. 234, R 1
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
(except inhalants in aerosol dispensers containing adrenaline or its salts), rectal
preparations or preparations intended for use in the eye
Suprofen; its salts
Suxamethonium; its salts
Suxethonium bromide
Syrosingopine
Tacrine; its salts
Tacrolimus; its salts
Tadalafil; its salts
Talampicillin; its salts
Tamoxifen; its salts
Tazarotene
Tazobactam; its salts
Teclothiazide; its salts
Tegafur
Tegaserod; its salts
Teicoplanin
Telithromycin; its salts
Telmisartan
Temazepam
Temozolomide
Tenecteplase
Teniposide
Tenocyclidine
Tenonitrozole
Tenoxicam
Terazosin; its salts
Terbinafine; its salts
Terbutaline; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                   [1999 Ed.   p. 81
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Terconazole
Terfenadine
Teriparatide
Terlipressin; its salts
Tertatolol; its salts
Testosterone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Tetrabenazine; its salts
Tetracosactide; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tetracyclines; its salts; its esters; their salts; that is to say, the antimicrobial
substances containing the chemical structure naphthacene-2-carboxymide,
hydrogenated to any extent and having each of the positions 1, 3, 10, 11 and 12
substituted by a hydroxyl or an oxo group
Tetrahydrocannabinol
Tetrahydropalmatine; its isomers; their salts
Tetrazepam
Thalidomide; its salts
Thallium, salts of; which are intended for the treatment of human ailments
Thebacon; its salts; its esters; their salts
Thebaine; its quarternary compounds; their salts; except substances containing
less than 1% of thebaine
Theofibrate
Theophylline; its salts; its derivatives; its compounds
Thiabendazole
Thiacetazone
Thialbarbitone; its salts
Thiambutosine
Thiamphenicol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Thiethylperazine; its salts
Thiocarlide; its salts
Thioguanine; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 82   1999 Ed.]                   Poisons Rules              [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Thiopentone; its salts
Thiopropazate; its salts
Thioproperazine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Thioridazine; its salts
Thiotepa; its salts
Thiothixene; its salts
Thiouracil; its alkyl derivatives
Thymosin alpha 1
Thymoxamine; its salts
Thyroid gland, the active principles of; their salts
Thyrotrophin
Thyroxine; its salts
Tiagabine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tianeptine; its salts
Tiapride; its salts
Tiaprofenic acid; its salts
Tibolone
Ticarcillin; its salts
Ticlopidine; its salts
Tiemonium; its salts
Tigloidine; its salts
Tilidine; its salts
Tiludronic acid; its salts
Timepidium; its salts
Timolol; its salts
Tinidazole
Tinzaparin; its salts
Tioconazole
Tiotropium; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed.   p. 83
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Tirilazad; its salts
Tirofiban; its salts
Tixocortol; its salts
Tizanidine; its salts
Tobramycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tocainide; its salts
Tofenacin; its salts
Tolazamide; its salts
Tolazoline; its salts
Tolbutamide; its salts
Tolcapone
Tolmetin; its salts
Tolnaftate
Toloxatone
Tolperisone; its salts
Tolterodine; its salts
Topiramate
Topotecan; its salts
Toremifene; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tosufloxacin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tramadol; its salts
Tranexamic acid
Tranylcypromine; its salts
Trastuzumab
Travoprost
Trazodone; its salts
Treosulphan
Tretamine; its salts
Tretinoin (all trans Retinoic acid)


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 84   1999 Ed.]                    Poisons Rules             [CAP. 234, R 1
                           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Triacetyloleandomycin
Triamcinolone; its salts
Triamterene; its salts
Triaziquone
Triazolam
Tribenoside
Tribromethyl alcohol
2, 2, 2-Trichloroethyl alcohol, esters of; their salts
Trichomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Triclofos sodium
Tricyclamol; its salts
Trienbolone
Trientine; its salts; which are intended for the treatment of human ailments
Trifluoperazine; its salts
Trifluperidol; its salts
Trifluridine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Triflusal; its salts; its esters; their salts
Trimebutine; its salts
Trimegestone
Trimeperidine; its salts
Trimeprazine; its salts
Trimetaphan; its salts
Trimetazidine; its salts
Trimethoprim
3, 4, 5-Trimethoxyamphetamine
Trimetrexate; its salts; its esters; their salts
Trimipramine; its salts
Trimustine; its salts
Tripamide


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules             [1999 Ed.   p. 85
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Triptorelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tromantadine; its salts
Tropicamide
Tropisetron; its salts
Trospium; its salts
Trovafloxacin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Troxidone
Tubocurarine; its salts
Tybamate
Tylosin; its salts; its esters and their salts
Tyrothricin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Unoprostone; its salts; its esters and their salts
Uramustine
Urapidil; its salts
Urea, when contained in preparations intended for human consumption, except
external preparations containing not more than 10% of urea
Ureamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Urethane
Urokinase
Ursodeoxycholic acid; its salts; its esters; their salts
Vaccines, sera, toxoids, antitoxoids, immunoglobulins and antigens for human
administration
Valaciclovir; its salts
Valdecoxib
Valganciclovir; its salts
Valproic acid; its salts
Valsartan
Vancomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Vardenafil; its salts; its active derivatives



            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 86   1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Vasopressins, natural and synthetic
Vecuronium; its salts
Venlafaxine; its salts
Verapamil; its salts
Veratrum, alkaloids of; its quarternary compounds, their salts, except substances
containing less than 1% of the alkaloids of veratrum
Verteporfin; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Vidarabine
Vigabatrin
Viloxazine; its salts
Vinbarbitone; its salts
Vinblastine; its salts
Vincristine; its salts
Vindesine; its salts
Vinorelbine; its salts
Vinpocetine
Vinylbital
Viomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Virginiamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Voriconazole
Warfarin; its salts
Xamoterol; its salts
Xipamide
Xylazine; its salts
Yohimba, alkaloids of; its quarternary compounds; their salts
Zafirlukast
Zalcitabine
Zanamivir
Zidovudine


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                   [1999 Ed.    p. 87
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Zipeprol; its salts
Ziprasidone; its salts
Zofenopril; its salts
Zolendronic acid; its salts
Zolmitriptan
Zolpidem; its salts
Zopiclone
Zoxazolamine; its salts
Zuclopenthixol; its salts; its esters; their salts

                            SECOND SCHEDULE
                                                                               Rule 14

               ARTICLES EXEMPTED UNDER RULE 14 FROM
                   THE PROVISIONS OF THE ACT AND
                    THE RULES MADE THEREUNDER
                                      GROUP I
                            GENERAL EXEMPTIONS
Active ingredients other than substances and compounds adulterated with active
ingredients; adhesives; anti-fouling compositions; builders’ materials; cell,
tissue and gene therapy products; ceramics; distempers; electrical valves;
enamels; explosives; fillers; fireworks; fluorescent lamps; glazes; glue; inks;
lacquer solvents; loading materials; matches; medical devices; motor fuels and
lubricants; paints other than pharmaceutical paints; photographic paper;
pigments; plastics; propellants; rubber; therapeutic products; varnishes;
vascular plants and their seeds.

                                                          [S 834/2023 wef 18/12/2023]


                                     GROUP II
                              SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS
         First column                 Second column             Third column
            Poison                    Subset of poison   Substance or article in which
                                                                  exempted




            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 88    1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules                      [CAP. 234, R 1
                         SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
Acetanilide; alkyl acetanilides                             Substances not being
                                                            preparations intended for the
                                                            treatment of human ailments
Acetyl cysteine                                             Cosmetic products not
                                                            intended for the treatment of
                                                            human ailments
Alkaloids, the following:

                                  Aconite, alkaloids of     Chinese proprietary
                                                            medicines; herbal substances
                                                            in raw form described in the
                                                            current edition of
                                                            “A Dictionary of Chinese
                                                            Pharmacy” <<中药大辞典>>
                                                            or “The Chinese Herbal
                                                            Medicine Materia Medica” <<
                                                            本草纲目>>, intended for the
                                                            manufacture of Chinese
                                                            proprietary medicines only
                                  Brucine                   Surgical spirit containing not
                                                            more than 0.015% of brucine;
                                                            perfume containing not more
                                                            than 0.015% of brucine
                                  Emetine                   Ipecacuanha; extracts and
                                                            tinctures of ipecacuanha;
                                                            substances containing less
                                                            than 0.05% of emetine
                                  Ephedra, alkaloids of     Substances containing less
                                                            than 1% of the alkaloids of
                                                            ephedra, except when
                                                            contained in eye preparations
                                  Jaborandi, alkaloids of   Substances containing less
                                                            than 0.025% of the alkaloids
                                                            of jaborandi; preparations
                                                            containing not more than 2%,
                                                            weight in weight, of the
                                                            sulphate salt of trans‑pilosine
                                  Lobelia, alkaloids of     Preparations for the relief of
                                                            asthma in the form of
                                                            cigarettes, smoking mixtures
                                                            or fumigants; substances
                                                            containing less than 0.1% of
                                                            the alkaloids of lobelia
                                  Nicotine                  Tobacco and tobacco products;
                                                            preparations not intended for
                                                            human consumption; other


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                        Poisons Rules                        [1999 Ed.     p. 89
                       SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
                                                                liquid preparations and solid
                                                                preparations with a soap base,
                                                                containing not more than 7.5%
                                                                of nicotine, weight in weight
                                    Pomegranate, alkaloids of   Pomegranate bark; cosmetic
                                                                products not intended for the
                                                                treatment of human ailments
                                    Quebracho, alkaloids of     Cosmetic products not
                                                                intended for the treatment of
                                                                human ailments
                                    Quinine                     Tonic wines containing not
                                                                more than 0.1% quinine
                                                                calculated as base; aerated
                                                                waters containing not more
                                                                than 0.02% quinine calculated
                                                                as base; other substances not
                                                                being preparations for the
                                                                treatment of human ailments;
                                                                external preparations
                                                                containing not more than 1%
                                                                of quinine calculated as base
                                    Solanaceous alkaloids       Stramonium contained in
                                                                preparations for the relief of
                                                                asthma in the form of
                                                                cigarettes, smoking mixtures
                                                                or fumigants; cosmetic
                                                                products not intended for the
                                                                treatment of human ailments
                                    Stavesacre, alkaloids of    Soaps, ointments; lotions for
                                                                external use
p-Aminobenzenesulphonamide; its                                 Feeding stuffs containing not
salts; derivatives of                                           more than 0.5% of total
p‑aminobenzenesulphonamide                                      sulphonamides;
having any of the hydrogen atoms                                sulphaquinoxaline when
of the p-amino group or of                                      contained to a concentration
sulphonamide group substituted by                               not exceeding 0.5% in
another radical; their salts                                    preparations for the
                                                                destruction of rats and mice;
                                                                solutions containing not more
                                                                than 16% weight in volume of
                                                                total sulphonamides for the
                                                                treatment of diseases in
                                                                animals; preparations
                                                                containing sulfadoxine 500 mg
                                                                used as an anti-malarial
                                                                prophylactic in approved
                                                                institution only


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 90    1999 Ed.]                    Poisons Rules                             [CAP. 234, R 1
                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
Ammonium lactate                                                     Cosmetic products not
                                                                     intended for the treatment of
                                                                     human ailments
Amygdalin                                                            Chinese proprietary
                                                                     medicines; herbal substances
                                                                     in raw form described in the
                                                                     current edition of
                                                                     “A Dictionary of Chinese
                                                                     Pharmacy” <<中药大辞典>>
                                                                     or “The Chinese Herbal
                                                                     Medicine Materia Medica” <<
                                                                     本草纲目>>, intended for the
                                                                     manufacture of Chinese
                                                                     proprietary medicines only
Androgenic, oestrogenic and                                          Preparations intended for
progestational substances, the                                       external application only,
following:                                                           except preparations containing
                                                                     more than 4 mg of oestrogenic
                                                                     substance per hundred
                                                                     grammes of inert substances;
                                                                     feeding stuffs containing
                                                                     hexoestrol or stilboestrol or
                                                                     both and not containing any
                                                                     other androgenic, oestrogenic
                                                                     or progestational substance
                                    Benzoestrol

                                    Derivatives of stilbene,
                                    dibenzyl or naphthalene
                                    with oestrogenic activity;
                                    their esters; their ethers;
                                    their salts
                                    Steroid compounds with
                                    androgenic or oestrogenic or
                                    progestational activity; their
                                    esters; their ethers; their
                                    salts
Antibiotics, the following, their                                    Preparations for animal
salts; their esters:                                                 feeding containing not more
                                                                     than the equivalent of 5 parts
                                                                     of antibiotic substance in 100
                                                                     parts of feeding stuff;
                                                                     sensitivity bio‑discs
                                                                     incorporated with antibiotics
                                                                     for laboratory use only; media
                                                                     containing antibiotics for
                                                                     storage of organs or tissues to



              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                       [1999 Ed.    p. 91
                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
                                                        be transplanted which are not
                                                        intended for the treatment of
                                                        human ailments
                           Actinomycins

                           2’-amino-2’-deoxy
                           kanamycin
                           Amphomycin

                           Amphotericin B

                           Bacitracin

                           Bleomycin

                           Cabimicina

                           Candicidin

                           Capreomyprcin

                           Cephalosporins, that is to
                           say, the antimicrobial
                           substances containing in
                           their chemical structure a
                           fused dihydrothiazine
                           β‑lactam nucleus
                           Chloramphenicol

                           Chlortetracycline

                           Chromomycin A

                           Clindamycin

                           Colimycin

                           Cycloserine

                           Demeclocycline

                           Dihydrostreptomycin

                           Erythromycin

                           Flavomycin

                           Framycetin

                           Fumagillin

                           Fusidic acid

                           Gentamicin

                           Gramicidins


          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 92   1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
                    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
                            Griseofulvin

                            Hachimycin

                            Kanamycin

                            Lincomycins, that is to say,
                            the S-alkyl derivatives of
                            6,8‑dideoxy-6-trans-
                            (4‑alkyl-L-2-pyrrolidine
                            carboxamido)-1-thio-
                            D‑erythro-α-D‑galacto-
                            octopyranoside, and
                            N‑methyl-pyrrolidine
                            analogues thereof
                            Methacycline

                            Mithramycin

                            Mitomycins

                            Neomycin

                            Novobiocin

                            Nystatin

                            Oleandomycin

                            Paromomycin

                            Penicillin, any antimicrobial
                            acid, any salt thereof, or any
                            derivative which is obtained
                            therefrom, which may be
                            shown on chemical and
                            physical examination to
                            contain in its structure a
                            fused thiazolidine β-lactam
                            nucleus
                            Polymyxins

                            Rifamycins, that is to say, a
                            group of related
                            antimicrobial microlactans,
                            either produced by the
                            growth of Streptomyces
                            mediterranei or by
                            modification of such
                            products, and containing the
                            chemical structure of 11-
                            acetoxy‑7,9,15-trihydroxy-
                            13-methoxy-2,6,8,10,12-



           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                              [1999 Ed.    p. 93
                        SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
                                 pentamethyl-pentadeca-
                                 2,4,14-trienoic acid amide,
                                 attached by the nitrogen
                                 atom and by the oxygen
                                 atom in the 15‑position
                                 respectively to the 7- and 2-
                                 positions of a 5,6,9-
                                 trioxygenated
                                 2,4‑dimenthyl-1-
                                 oxonaphtho (2,1‑b) furan
                                 Rictocetin

                                 Spectinomycin

                                 Spiramycin

                                 Streptomycin and its
                                 derivatives
                                 Tetracyclines, that is to say,
                                 the antimicrobial substances
                                 containing the chemical
                                 structure naphthacene-2-
                                 carboxymide, hydrogenated
                                 to any extent and having
                                 each of the positions 1, 3, 10,
                                 11 and 12 substituted by a
                                 hydroxyl or an oxo group
                                 Thiamphenicol

                                 Trichomycin

                                 Tylosin

                                 Tyrothricin

                                 Ureamycin

                                 Vancomycin

                                 Viomycin

                                 Virginiamycin

Anti-histamine substances, the                                     Preparations intended for
following; their salts, their                                      external application only and
molecular compounds:                                               preparations containing not
                                                                   more than 1% of anti-
                                                                   histamine substances for
                                                                   application in the nose or eye
                                 Antazoline

                                 Azatadine


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 94   1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
                    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
                            Bamipine

                            Bromodiphenhydramine

                            Bromopheniramine

                            Buclizine

                            Carbinoxamine

                            Chlorcyclizine

                            Chlorpheniramine

                            Cinnarizine

                            Clemastine

                            Clemizole

                            Cyclizine

                            Cyproheptadine

                            Dimenhydrinate

                            Dimethidene

                            Dimethoxanate

                            Dimethpyrindene

                            3-Di-n-butylaminomethyl-
                            4,5,6-trihydroxyphthalide
                            Diphenhydramine

                            Diphenylpyraline

                            Doxylamine

                            Embramine

                            Flunarizine

                            Homochlorcyclizine

                            Isothipendyl

                            Levocabastine

                            Mebhydrolin

                            Meclastine

                            Meclozine

                            Mepyramine

                            Mequitazine



           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                            Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed.     p. 95
                            SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
                                        Methdilazine

                                        Oxatomide

                                        Oxomemazine

                                        Phenindamine

                                        Pheniramine

                                        Phenyltoloxamine

                                        Promethazine

                                        Pyrathiazine

                                        Pyrrobutamine

                                        Thenalidine

                                        Thenyldiamine

                                        Thiazinamium

                                        Tolpropamine

                                        Tripelennamine

                                        Triprolidine

                                        Substances being
                                        tetra‑N‑substituted
                                        derivatives of
                                        ethylenediamine or
                                        propylenediamine
Antimony chlorides of                                         Polishes

Barbituric acid; its salts;                                   Self-heating preparations, in
derivatives of barbituric acid; their                         aerosol dispensers, intended
salts; compounds of barbituric                                for external application only,
acid; their salts; their derivatives,                         containing 1,5-diethyl-2-thio-
their salts, with any other                                   4,6-pyrimidinedione and not
substance                                                     containing any other substance
                                                              mentioned opposite hereto in
                                                              the first column
Benzocaine                                                    External preparations
                                                              containing not more than 1%
                                                              of benzocaine
Berberine; its quaternary                                     Cosmetic products not
compounds; their salts                                        intended for the treatment of
                                                              human ailments; Chinese
                                                              proprietary medicines; herbal
                                                              substances in raw form
                                                              described in the current edition


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 96    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                   [CAP. 234, R 1
                           SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
                                                        of “A Dictionary of Chinese
                                                        Pharmacy” <<中药大辞典>>
                                                        or “The Chinese Herbal
                                                        Medicine Materia Medica” <<
                                                        本草纲目>>
Boric acid; sodium borate                               Medicinal preparations,
                                                        cosmetics and toilet
                                                        preparations containing not
                                                        more than 5% boric acid, or
                                                        5% sodium borate or 5% of a
                                                        combination of both;
                                                        substances not being
                                                        preparations intended for
                                                        human consumption
Carbenoxolone; its salts                                Preparations intended for
                                                        topical application only
Carbocisteine                                           Cosmetic products not
                                                        intended for the treatment of
                                                        human ailments
Chloroform                                              Substances containing less
                                                        than 1% of chloroform; solid
                                                        preparations; toothpaste;
                                                        substances not being
                                                        preparations intended for the
                                                        treatment of human ailments
Clotrimazole                                            Preparations intended for
                                                        dermatological uses,
                                                        containing not more than 1%
                                                        of clotrimazole; cosmetic
                                                        products not intended for the
                                                        treatment of human ailments
Creosote obtained from wood                             Substances containing less
                                                        than 50% of creosote obtained
                                                        from wood
Deanol, except deanol                                   Cosmetic products not
aceglutamate                                            intended for the treatment of
                                                        human ailments
Diclofenac diethylammonium                              Preparations intended for
                                                        external application only, and
                                                        containing diclofenac
                                                        diethylammonium salt
                                                        equivalent to not more than
                                                        1% of diclofenac sodium
Diperodon; its salts                                    Preparations intended for
                                                        external application only,


               Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                   [1999 Ed.      p. 97
                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
                                                        containing not more than 1%
                                                        of diperodon calculated as
                                                        anhydrous base
Disulfiram                                              Substances not being
                                                        preparations for the treatment
                                                        of human ailments
Econazole; its salts                                    Preparations intended for
                                                        dermatological uses,
                                                        containing not more than 1%
                                                        of econazole calculated as its
                                                        free base
Furaltadone                                             Preparations for animal
                                                        feeding containing furaltadone
Furazolidone                                            Preparations for animal
                                                        feeding containing
                                                        furazolidone
Haloprogin                                              Dermatological preparations
                                                        containing not more than 1%
                                                        of haloprogin
Heparin                                                 Preparations intended for
                                                        external use only
Hexachlorophene                                         Substances containing not
                                                        more than 0.1%, weight in
                                                        weight, of hexachlorophene
                                                        except preparations for infant
                                                        use
Hydroxyquinoline; its salts; its                        Substances not being
derivatives; their salts                                preparations for the treatment
                                                        of human ailments
Ketoconazole; its salts                                 Preparations intended for
                                                        dermatological uses,
                                                        containing not more than 1%
                                                        of ketoconazole calculated as
                                                        its free base
Lead acetate; compounds of lead                         Substances not being
with acids from fixed oils                              preparations intended for the
                                                        treatment of human ailments;
                                                        substances containing less
                                                        than 4% of lead acetate
Lignocaine; its salts                                   External preparations
                                                        containing not more than 8%
                                                        of lignocaine base




               Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 98    1999 Ed.]                    Poisons Rules               [CAP. 234, R 1
                         SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
Lithium carbonate                                      Substances other than those
                                                       intended for treatment of
                                                       human ailments
Lovastatin                                             Substances containing less
                                                       than 1% of lovastatin
Mercury, nitrates of                                   Ointments containing less than
                                                       the equivalent of 3%, weight
                                                       in weight, of mercury (Hg)
Mercury, oxides of                                     Canker and wound paints (for
                                                       trees) containing not more
                                                       than 3%, weight in weight, of
                                                       yellow mercuric oxide
Mescaline; its salts                                   Living plants

Methoxsalen                                            Chinese proprietary
                                                       medicines; herbal substances
                                                       in raw form described in the
                                                       current edition of
                                                       “A Dictionary of Chinese
                                                       Pharmacy” <<中药大辞典>>
                                                       or “The Chinese Herbal
                                                       Medicine Materia Medica” <<
                                                       本草纲目>>, intended for the
                                                       manufacture of Chinese
                                                       proprietary medicines only
Miconazole; its salts                                  Preparations intended for
                                                       dermatological uses,
                                                       containing not more than 2%
                                                       of miconazole calculated as its
                                                       free base
Mustine and any other                                  Substances not being
N‑substituted derivatives of di‑(2-                    preparations intended for the
chloroethyl) amine; their salts                        treatment of human ailments
Nitrofurantoin                                         Preparations for animal
                                                       feeding containing
                                                       nitrofurantoin
Nitrofurazone                                          Preparations for animal
                                                       feeding containing
                                                       nitrofurazone
m-Nitrophenol; o-Nitrophenol; p-                       Substances not being
Nitrophenol                                            preparations intended for the
                                                       treatment of human ailments
Phenacetin                                             Cosmetic products not
                                                       intended for the treatment of
                                                       human ailments


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.     p. 99
                            SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
Phenethylamine; its salts                              Preparations containing not
                                                       more than 300 ppm of
                                                       phenethylamine
Phenols                                                Preparations containing less
                                                       than 1% of phenols; nasal
                                                       sprays, mouth washes,
                                                       pastilles, lozenges, capsules,
                                                       pessaries, ointments of
                                                       suppositories containing less
                                                       than 2.5% of phenols; in
                                                       reagent kits supplied for
                                                       medical or veterinary
                                                       purposes; smelling bottles;
                                                       soaps for washing; solid
                                                       substances, other than
                                                       pastilles, lozenges, capsules,
                                                       pessaries, ointments and
                                                       suppositories, containing less
                                                       than 60% of phenols; tar (coal
                                                       or wood), crude or refined
Phenyl mercuric salts                                  Toilet, cosmetic and
                                                       therapeutic preparations
                                                       containing not more than
                                                       0.01% of phenyl mercuric salts
                                                       as a preservative; antiseptic
                                                       dressings on toothbrushes; in
                                                       textiles containing not more
                                                       than 0.01% of phenyl mercuric
                                                       salts as a bacteriostat and
                                                       fungicide
Picric acid                                            Substances not being
                                                       preparations intended for the
                                                       treatment of human ailments;
                                                       substances containing less
                                                       than 5% of picric acid
Piper methysticum (kava-kava),                         Cosmetic products not
the active constituents of; kava                       intended for the treatment of
pyrones (kavalactones); their                          human ailments
quaternary compounds; their salts
Podophyllum resin                                      Preparations containing not
                                                       more than 1.5%, weight in
                                                       weight, of podophyllum resin
Procaine                                               When associated with not
                                                       more than 1 in 10,000 parts
                                                       with penicillin in preparations
                                                       for animal feeding



              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 100    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
                        SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
Selenium sulphide                                      External preparations
                                                       containing not more than 2.5%
                                                       of selenium sulphide
Sodium ethyl                                           Therapeutic substances
mercurithiosalicylate                                  containing less than 0.1% of
                                                       sodium ethyl
                                                       mercurithiosalicylate as a
                                                       preservative
Sodium fluoride                                        Substances containing less
                                                       than 3% of sodium fluoride as
                                                       a preservative; cosmetic
                                                       products not intended for the
                                                       treatment of human ailments;
                                                       tablets containing not more
                                                       than 0.016% in weight of
                                                       sodium fluoride and intended,
                                                       when chewed, to prevent tooth
                                                       decay; dentifrices containing
                                                       not more than 0.5% of sodium
                                                       fluoride; mouth wash tablets
                                                       containing not more than 0.2%
                                                       of sodium fluoride and liquid
                                                       mouth washes containing not
                                                       more than 0.05% thereof;
                                                       tablets containing not more
                                                       than 0.016%, weight in
                                                       weight, of sodium fluoride and
                                                       intended, when chewed, to
                                                       prevent tooth decay
Sodium nitrite                                         Substances other than
                                                       preparations containing more
                                                       than 0.1% of sodium nitrite for
                                                       the destruction of rats and
                                                       mice
Terbinafine                                            Preparations intended for
                                                       dermatological uses,
                                                       containing not more than 1%
                                                       of terbinafine calculated as its
                                                       free base
Tetrahydropalmatine; its isomers;                      Chinese proprietary
their salts                                            medicines; Corydalis
                                                       yanhusuo in raw form
                                                       described in the current edition
                                                       of “A Dictionary of Chinese
                                                       Pharmacy” <<中药大辞典>>
                                                       or “The Chinese Herbal
                                                       Medicine Materia Medica” <<



              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed. p. 101
                          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued
                                                       本草纲目>>; herbal
                                                       substances in raw form
                                                       described in the current edition
                                                       of “A Dictionary of Chinese
                                                       Pharmacy” <<中药大辞典>>
                                                       or “The Chinese Herbal
                                                       Medicine Materia Medica” <<
                                                       本草纲目>>, intended for the
                                                       manufacture of Chinese
                                                       proprietary medicines only
Theophylline; its salts; its                           Preparations containing
derivatives; its compounds                             8‑bromotheophylline
                                                       compound with 2‑amino-2-
                                                       methyl-1-propranol
                                                       (Pamabron)
Thiabendazole                                          Cosmetic products not
                                                       intended for the treatment of
                                                       human ailments
Thiouracil; its alkyl derivatives                      Substances not being
                                                       preparations intended for the
                                                       treatment of human ailments
Tolnaftate                                             Preparations intended for
                                                       dermatological uses,
                                                       containing not more than 1%
                                                       of tolnaftate
Tranexamic acid                                        Preparations containing not
                                                       more than 0.05% of
                                                       tranexamic acid; cosmetic
                                                       products not intended for the
                                                       treatment of human ailments
Warfarin; its salts                                    Preparations for destruction of
                                                       rats and mice containing not
                                                       more than 0.1% of warfarin

                                                         [S 216/2018 wef 01/06/2018]
                                                          [S 62/2016 wef 01/04/2016]
                                                         [S 714/2012 wef 01/01/2013]
                                                         [S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]
                                                         [S 112/2021 wef 01/03/2021]
                                                         [S 562/2022 wef 01/08/2022]




              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 102      1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
                              THIRD SCHEDULE
                                                                            Rule 15

   SUBSTANCES REQUIRED BY RULE 15 TO BE SOLD UPON A
PRESCRIPTION GIVEN BY A MEDICAL PRACTITIONER, DENTIST OR
                 VETERINARY SURGEONS
Abacavir; its salts; its esters; their salts
Abciximab
Acamprosate; its salts
Acebutolol; its salts
Aceclofenac
Acemetacin
Acepromazine; its salts
Acetanilide; alkyl acetanilides
Acetazolamide; its salts
Acetohexamide
Acetylcarbromal
Acetyl cysteine
Acetyldigoxin
Acipimox
Acitretin
Actinomycins; its salts; its esters; their salts
Acyclovir; except in dermatological preparations containing not more than 5%
of acyclovir
Adalimumab
Adapalene
Adefovir dipivoxil
Adicillin
Adiphenine; its salts
Adrenaline; its salts; except when contained in preparations intended for external
application only or in inhalants (except inhalants in aerosol dispensers), rectal
preparations or preparations intended for use in the eye



              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules              [1999 Ed. p. 103
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Adreno-corticotrophic hormone (ACTH)
Alatrofloxacin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Alclofenac
Alclometasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Alcuronium; its salts
Aldesleukin
Aldosterone
Alemtuzumab
Alendronic acid; its salts
Alfuzosine; its salts
Algestone; its salts
Allobarbitone; its salts
Allopurinol; its salts
Allylisopropylacetylurea
Allyloestrenol
Alminoprofen
Almitrine; its salts
Alosetron; its salts
Alphachloralose
Alphadolone; its salts
Alphaxalone
Alprazolam
Alprenolol; its salts
Alprostadil
Alseroxylon
Altretamine; which are intended for the treatment of human ailments
Amantadine; its salts
Ambenonium; its salts
Ambuside


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 104    1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Ambutonium; its salts
Ametazole; its salts
Amidopyrine; its salts; amidopyrine sulphonates; their salts
Amifostine; its salts
Amikacin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Amiloride; its salts
Amineptine; its salts
p-Aminobenzene-sulphonamide; its salts; derivatives of p-amino-benzene-
sulphonamide having any of the hydrogen atoms of the p-amino group or of the
sulphonamide group substituted by another radical; their salts; except when
contained in ointments or surgical dressings or in preparations for the prevention
and treatment of diseases in poultry
Aminocaproic acid
2’-Amino-2’-deoxykanamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Aminoglutethimide; its salts
(±)-cis-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phenyl-2-oxazoline
Aminophylline
Aminopterin; its salts
Aminorex; its salts
p-Aminosalicylic acid; its salts
Amiodarone; its salts
Amisulpride
Amitriptyline; its salts
Amlodipine; its salts
Ammonium lactate
Amorolfine; its salts
Amoxycillin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Amphomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Amphotericin B; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ampicillin; its salts; its esters; their salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                   Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed. p. 105
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Amrinone; its salts
Amsacrine (M-AMSA)
Amylobarbitone; its salts
Anagrelide; its salts
Anastrozole
Ancrod
Androgenic, oestrogenic and progestational substances, the following:
    Derivatives of stilbene, dibenzyl or naphthalene with oestrogenic activity;
    their esters; their ethers; their salts
    Steroid compounds with androgenic or oestrogenic or progestational
    activity; their esters; their ethers; their salts
Androsterone
Angiotensin amide
Anistreplase
Apraclonidine; its salts
Apramycin; its salts
Aprepitant
Aprobarbitone
Aprotinin
Aripiprazole
Arotinolol; its salts
Arteether
Artemether
Artemisinin
Artesunate; its salts
Articaine; its salts
L-Asparaginase
Aspoxicillin; its salts
Astemizole



             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 106    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                   [CAP. 234, R 1
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Atazanavir; its salts
Atenolol; its salts
Atorvastatin; its salts
Atosiban; its salts
Atovaquone
Atracurium; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Auranofin
Azacyclonol; its salts
Azaperone
Azapropazone
Azasetron; its salts
Azathioprine; its salts
Azelastine; its salts
Azidamphenicol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Azidocillin; its salts
Azithromycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Bacampicillin; its salts
Bacitracin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Baclofen
Bambermycin
Barbitone; its salts
Barbituric acid; its salts; derivatives of barbituric acid; their salts; compounds of
barbituric acid; its salts; its derivatives, their salts, with any other substance
Basiliximab
Becaplermin
Beclamide
Beclomethasone; its salts; its esters; their salts; except in nasal sprays containing
not more than 0.05% of beclomethasone, calculated as its free base
Befunolol; its salts



            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed. p. 107
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Bemegride; its salts
Benactyzine; its salts; its quarternary compounds
Benapryzine; its salts
Bendrofluazide
Benethamine penicillin
Benfluorex; its salts
Benoxaprofen
Benperidol
Benserazide; its salts
Benzamidosalicylic acid; its salts
Benzathine penicillin
Benzbromarone
Benzhexol; its salts
Benzilonium; its salts
Benzoctamine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Benzoestrol
N-Benzoyl sulphanilamide
Benzquinamide; its salts
Benzthiazide
Benztropine and its homologues; their salts
Benzylpenicillin; its salts
Betahistine; its salts
Betamethasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Betaxolol; its salts
Bethanechol; its salts
Bethanidine; its salts
Bezafibrate
Bicalutamide
Bimatoprost


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 108    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules             [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Biperiden; its salts
Bisoprolol; its salts
Bleomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Boldenone undecenoate
Bopindolol
Boric acid; sodium borate
Bosentan; its salts
Botulinum Toxin, when contained in preparations intended for treatment of
human ailments
Bretylium; its salts
Brimonidine; its salts
Brinzolamide
Bromazepam
Bromocriptine; its salts
Bromvaletone
Brotizolam
Budesonide; its salts; except in nasal sprays containing not more than 0.2% of
budesonide
Bufexamac
Buflomedil; its salts
Buformin; its salts
Bumadizone calcium
Bumetanide
Bunazosin; its salts
Bupranolol; its salts
Buprenorphine; its salts
Bupropion; its salts
Buserelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Buspirone; its salts



            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules              [1999 Ed. p. 109
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Busulphan; its salts
Butalbital
Butizide
Butobarbitone; its salts
Butoconazole; its salts
Butriptyline; its salts
Cabergoline
Cabimicina; its salts; its esters; their salts
Calcipotriol
Calcitonin, natural and synthetic
Calcium 5-alkyl-5-N-butyl-barbiturate
Calcium carbimide
Calcium dobesilate
Camazepam
Candesartan; its salts; its esters; their salts
Candicidin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Capecitabine
Capreomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Captodiame; its salts
Captopril
Caramiphen; its salts; except tablets containing not more than the equivalent of
7.5 milligrammes of caramiphen base, and liquid preparations containing not
more than the equivalent of 0.1% of caramiphen base
Carbachol
Carbamazepine
Carbenicillin; its salts
Carbenoxolone; its salts
Carbetocin
Carbidopa



             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 110     1999 Ed.]             Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Carbimazole; its salts
Carboplatin
Carbromal
Carbutamide; its salts
Carfecillin; its salts
Carisoprodol
Carmustine
Carprofen
Carteolol; its salts
Carvedilol
Caspofungin; its salts
Cathine
Cathinone
Cefaclor; its salts
Cefadroxil; its salts
Cefatrizine; its salts
Cefdinir
Cefixime; its salts
Cefodizime; its salts
Cefoperazone; its salts
Cefotaxime
Cefotiam; its salts
Cefoxitin
Cefpirome; its salts
Cefprozil
Cefsulodin; its salts
Ceftazidime; its salts
Ceftibuten
Ceftizoxime; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules                    [1999 Ed. p. 111
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Ceftriaxone; its salts
Cefuroxime
Celecoxib
Cephalexin
Cephaloglycin
Cephaloram
Cephaloridine
Cephalosporins; its salts; its esters; their salts; that is to say, the antimicrobial
substances containing in their chemical structure a fused dihydrothiazine β-
lactam nucleus
Cephalothin
Cephaloxin
Cephazolin
Cephradine
Cerivastatin; its salts
Cetrorelix; its salts
Chenodeoxycholic acid
Chloral; its addition and its condensation products other than α-chloralose; their
molecular compounds; except when contained in the form of chloral hydrate, in
preparations intended for external application only
Chlorambucil
Chloramphenicol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Chlordiazepoxide; its salts
Chlormadinone; its salts
Chlormerodrin
Chlormethiazole; its salts
Chlormezanone; its salts
Chlormidazole; its salts
Chlorothiazide and other derivatives of benzo-1, 2, 4-thiadiazine-7-
sulphonamide-1, 1-dioxide, whether hydrogenated or not



            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 112    1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Chlorphenoxamine; its salts
Chlorphentermine; its salts
Chlorpromazine; its salts
Chlorpropamide; its salts
Chlorprothixene and other derivatives of 9-methylenethiazanthene; their esters;
their salts
Chlorquinaldol
Chlortetracycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Chlorthalidone and other derivatives of o-chlorobenzene sulphonamide
Chlorzoxazone
Cholestyramine
Chorionic gonadotrophin
Chromomycin A; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ciclacillin; its salts
Cilastatin; its salts
Cilazapril
Cilostazol
Cimetidine; its salts; except oral preparations containing not more than 100mg in
solid dosage form, or 100mg/5ml in liquid dosage form, of cimetidine, calculated
as its free base
Ciprofibrate
Ciprofloxacin; its salts
Cisapride
Cisplatin
Citalopram; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Citicoline
Cladribine
Clarithromycin; its salts
Clavulanic acid; its salts
Clebopride


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed.   p. 113
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Clenbuterol
Clidinium; its salts
Clindamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Clioquinol
Clobazam
Clobenzorex; its salts
Clobetasol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Clobetasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Clodronic acid; its salts
Clofazimine
Clofibrate
Clomiphene; its salts
Clomipramine; its salts
Clomocycline; its salts
Clonazepam
Clonidine; its salts
Clopamide
Clopenthixol; its salts
Clopidogrel; its salts
Cloprostenol; its salts
Clorazepate; its salts
Clorexolone
Clorprenaline; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Clostebol; its salts
Clostridiopeptidase A
Clotiazepam
Clotrimazole; except when contained in dermatological and vaginal preparations
Cloxacillin benzathine
Cloxacillin; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 114    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Cloxazolam
Cloxiquine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Clozapine; its salts
Colchicum; alkaloids of; their salts, their quarternary compounds; their salts
Colestipol; its salts
Colimycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Colistin; its salts
Corticorelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Corticotrophins, natural and synthetic
Cortisone, hydrocortisone, prednisone, prednisolone; derivatives of these with
hydroxyl, alkyl groups or halogens as substituents, their salts; their esters; their
ethers and salts of such esters and ethers
Crisantaspase
Cropropamide
Crotethamide
Cyclandelate
Cyclarbamate
Cyclobarbitone
Cyclofenil
Cyclopenthiazide
Cyclopentolate; its salts
Cyclophosphamide
Cycloserine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Cyclosporin
Cyclothiazide
Cycrimine; its salts
Cyproterone; its salts
Cytarabine; its salts
Dacarbazine



             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules              [1999 Ed.   p. 115
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Daclizumab
Dalfopristin
Dalteparin; its salts
Danazol
Danthron
Dantrolene; its salts
Dapsone
Daunorubicin; its salts
Debrisoquine; its salts
Deferiprone
Deferoxamine; its salts
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA); its salts
Delmadinone; its salts
Delorazepam
Demecarium; its salts
Demeclocycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Demoxytocin; its isomers
Deoxycortone; its salts
Deserpidine
Desferrioxamine mesylate
Desfluorotriamcinolone
Desipramine; its salts
Deslanoside
Desmopressin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Desogestrel
Desonide; its salts
Desoxymethasone
Dexamethasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Dexetimide; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 116   1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
                        THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Dexfenfluramine; its salts
Dexrazoxane
Dextromethorphan; its salts; except substances containing less than 1.5% of
dextromethorphan
Dextrothyroxine sodium
Diazepam and other compounds containing the chemical structure of dihydro-1,
4-benzodiazepine substituted to any degree; their salts
Diazoxide; its salts
Dibekacin; its salts
Dibenzepin; its salts
Dichloralphenazone
Dichlorphenamide; its salts
Diclofenac; its salts; except when contained in dermatological preparations
Dicloxacillin; its salts
Didanosine
Dienoestrol
Diethanolamine fusidate
Diethylcarbamazine; its salts
Diethylpropion; its salts
Diflucortolone; its salts
Diflunisal
Digitalis, glycosides of; other active principles of digitalis
Dihydrallazine; its salts
Dihydroartemisin
Dihydrocodeine; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Dihydroergotamine; its salts
Dihydroergotoxine; its salts
Dihydrostreptomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
3-(3, 4-Dihydroxyphenyl) alanine; its salts



             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                   Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed.   p. 117
                        THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Diloxanide; its salts
Diltiazem; its salts
Dimercaprol
Dimethisterone
Dimethothiazine; its salts
2, 5-Dimethoxyamphetamine
2, 5-Dimethoxy-4-bromoamphetamine (DOB)
2, 5-Dimethoxy-4-ethylamphetamine
Dimethyl sulphoxide
Dinitrocresols (DNOC); their compounds with a metal or a base, except
preparations for use in agriculture or horticulture
Dinitronaphthols
Dinitrothymols
Dinoprost; its salts
Dinoprostone
Diphenidol; its salts
Dipivefrin; its salts
Diprophylline; its salts
Dipyridamole
Dipyrone
Disopyramide; its salts
Distigmine; its salts
Disulfiram
Disulphamide
Dithienylallylamines; dithienyl-alkylallylamines; their salts
Dobutamine; its salts
Docetaxel
Donepezil; its salts
Dopamine; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 118     1999 Ed.]               Poisons Rules               [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Dorzolamide; its salts
Dothiepin; its salts
Doxapram; its salts
Doxazosin; its salts
Doxepin; its salts
Doxofylline; its salts
Doxorubicin; its salts
Doxycycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Droperidol
Drosperinone
Drostanolone; its salts
Drotrecogin alpha
Dutasteride
Dydrogesterone
Ebastine
Econazole; its salts; except when contained in dermatological and vaginal
preparations
Ectylurea
Edoxudine
Edrophonium; its salts
Efavirenz
Eletriptan; its salts
Emedastine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Emepronium; its salts
Emylcamate
Enalapril; its salts
Enoxaparin; its salts
Entacapone
Eperisone; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed.   p. 119
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Ephedrine; its optical isomers; their salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Epicillin; its salts
Epimestrol
Epinastine; its salts
Epioestriol
Epirubicin; its salts
Epithiazide
Epoprostenol; its salts
Eprosartan; its salts; its esters; their salts
Eptifibatide
Ergometrine; its salts
Ergot, alkaloids of; whether hydrogenated or not; their homologues; their
quarternary compounds; their esters; their salts
Ergotamine; its salts
Ergotoxine; its salts
Ertapenem; its salts
Erythromycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Erythropoietin, natural and synthetic
Esmolol; its salts
Estazolam
Estramustine; its salts
Etafedrine; its salts
Etanercept
Ethacrynic acid; its salts
Ethambutol; its salts
Ethamivan
Ethamsylate
Ethchlorvynol
Ethebenecid


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 120     1999 Ed.]               Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Ethiazide
Ethinamate
Ethinyloestradiol
Ethionamide; its salts
Ethisterone
Ethoglucid
Ethoheptazine; its salts
Ethpropropazine; its salts
Ethosuximide
Ethotoin
Ethylacetanilide
N-Ethylamphetamine
Ethyl biscoumacetate
(±)-4-ethyl-2, 5-dimethoxy-∝-phenethylamine
Ethyl loflazepate
(±)-N-ethyl-∝-methyl-3,4-(methylenedioxy)phenethylamine
Ethylnoradrenaline; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Ethyloestrenol
Ethylstibamine
Ethynodiol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Etidronic acid; its salts: which are intended for the treatment of human ailments
Etodolac
Etofenamate
Etofibrate
Etomidate; its salts
Etonogestrel
Etoposide; its salts
Etoricoxib
Etretinate


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed. p. 121
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Etryptamine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ezetimibe
Famciclovir
Famotidine; except oral preparations containing not more than 10mg of
famotidine calculated as its free base
Famprofazone
Fazadinium; its salts
Felbinac
Felodipine
Felypressin
Fencamfamin; its salts
Fenclofenac
Fenetylline; its salts
Fenfluramine; its salts
Fenofibrate
Fenoprofen; it salts
Fenoterol; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Fenpipramide; its salts
Fenpiprane; its salts
Fenproporex; its salts
Feprazone
Fexofenadine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Filgrastim
Finasteride
Flavomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flavoxate; its salts
Flecainide; its salts
Floxuridine
Fluanisone


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 122    1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules              [CAP. 234, R 1
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Fluclorolone; its salts
Flucloxacillin; its salts
Fluconazole
Flucytosine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fludarabine phosphate
Fludiazepam
Fludrocortisone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flufenamic acid; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flugestone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flumazenil
Flumedroxone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flumethasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Flumethiazide
Flunisolide
Flunitrazepam
Fluocinolone
Fluocinolone acetonide
Fluocinonide
Fluocortolone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fluopromazine; its salts
Fluorometholone
Fluorouracil; its salts
Fluoxetine; its salts
Fluoxymesterone
Flupenthixol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fluperolone; its salts
Fluphenazine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fluprednidene; its salts
Fluprednisolone; its salts; its esters; their salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules            [1999 Ed. p. 123
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Fluprostenol; its salts
Flurandrenolone
Flurazepam; its salts
Flurbiprofen; its salts
Fluspirilene
Flutamide
Fluticasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Fluvastatin; its salts
Fluvoxamine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH)
Fondaparinux; its salts
Formestane
Formosulphathiazole
Formoterol; its salts
Foscarnet; its salts
Fosfestrol; its salts
Fosfomycin; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Fosinopril; its salts
Fotemustine
Framycetin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Frusemide
Fumagillin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Furaltadone
Furazolidone
Fusafungine
Fusidic acid; its salts; its esters; their salts
Gabapentin
Gadodiamide
Gadopentetic acid; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 124    1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Gadoversetamide
Galanthamine; its salts
Gallamine; its salts; its quarternary compounds
Ganciclovir; its salts
Ganirelix; its salts
Gatifloxacin; its salts; its isomers; its esters; their salts
Gefitinib
Gemcitabine; its salts
Gemeprost
Gemfibrozil; its salts; its esters and salts of such esters
Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin
Gentamicin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Gestodene
Gestrinone
Gestronol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Glafenine; its salts
Glibenclamide; its salts
Glibornuride; its salts
Gliclazide
Glimepiride
Glipizide
Gliquidone
Glucagon; its salts
Glutethimide; its salts
Glyceryl trinitrate; except when contained in sublingual preparations or
transdermal patches
Glycopyrrolate
Glymidine
Gonadorelin; its salts; its esters; their salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules             [1999 Ed. p. 125
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Goserelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Gramicidins; its salts; its esters; their salts
Granisetron; its salts
Grepafloxacin; its salts
Griseofulvin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Guanethidine; its salts
Guanoclor; its salts
Guanoxan; its salts
Hachimycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Halazepam
Halcinonide
Halofantrine; its salts
Halometasone
Haloperidol and other 4-substituted derivatives of N-(3-p-fluorobenzoylpropyl)
piperidine
Haloprogin
Haloxazolam
Heparin
Heparin calcium
Heptabarbitone
Heptaminol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Hexachlorophene
Hexamethonium; its salts
Hexapropymate
Hexobarbitone; its salts
Hexoestrol; its salts
Human blood products; except when contained in diagnostic kits
Human growth hormone
Hydrallazine; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 126    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                    [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Hydrazines, benzyl, phenethyl and phenoxyethyl; their α-methyl derivatives;
acyl derivatives of any of the foregoing substances comprised in this item; salts
of any compounds comprised in this item
Hydrochlorothiazide
Hydrocortisone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts except in dermatological
preparations of hydrocortisone or hydrocortisone acetate containing not more
than 1% hydrocortisone
Hydroxy-N, N-dimethyltryptamines; their esters or ethers; any salt of any
substance falling within this item
Hydroxyprogesterone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Hydroxyquinoline; its salts; its derivatives; their salts
Hydroxyurea
Hydroxyzine; its salts
Hygromycin B
Ibacitabine
Ibandronic acid; its salts
Ibuprofen; except in dermatological preparations, or oral preparations containing
not more than 200mg in solid dosage form, or 100mg/5ml in liquid dosage form,
of ibuprofen
Idarubicin; its salts
Idoxuridine
Idrocilamide
Ifenprodil; its salts
Ifosfamide
Iloprost; its salts; its esters; their salts
Imatinib; its salts
Imidapril; its salts
Imipenem
Imipramine; its salts
Imiquimod
Indapamide; its salts


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed. p. 127
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Indinavir; its salts
Indobufen; its salts
Indomethacin; its salts
Infliximab
Interferons
Ipratropium; its salts
Iprindole; its salts
Iproniazid; its salts
Irbesartan
Irinotecan; its salts
Isepamicin; its salts
Isoaminile; its salts
Isocarboxazid; its salts
Isoconazole; its salts; except when contained in dermatological and vaginal
preparations
Isoetharine; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Isoniazid; its salts; its derivatives; their salts
Isoprenaline; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Isopyrin
Isosorbide; its salts
Isoxsuprine; its salts
Isoxicam
Isradipine
Itopride; its salts
Itraconazole
Ivermectin
Kanamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Kanendomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ketamine; its salts


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 128    1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules               [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Ketanserin; its salts
Ketazolam
Ketoconazole; except when contained in dermatological and vaginal
preparations
Ketoprofen; its isomers; except when contained in dermatological preparations
Ketorolac; its salts
Ketotifen; its salts
Khellin
Labetalol; its salts
Lacidipine
Lafutidine
Lamivudine
Lamotrigine
Lanreotide; its salts; its esters; their salts
Lansoprazole
Latanoprost
Lefetamine
Lenograstim
Lepirudin
Lercanidipine; its salts
Letrozole
Leuprorelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Levamisole; its salts
Levamphetamine; its salts
Levetiracetam; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Levobunolol; its salts
Levodopa
Levomethamphetamine; its salts
Levonorgestrel


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                    [1999 Ed. p. 129
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Levosimendan
Lidoflazine
Lincomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts; that is to say, the S-alkyl derivatives
of 6, 8-dideoxy-6-trans-(4-alkyl-L-2-pyrrolidine arboxamido)-1-thio-D-erythro-
α-D-galacto-octo-pyranoside and N-methylpyrrolidine analogues thereof
Liothyronine sodium
Lisinopril
Lisuride; its salts
Lithium carbonate
Lodoxamide; its salts
Lofepramine; its salts
Lomefloxacin; its salts
Lomustine
Lonazolac; its salts
Lopinavir
Loprazolam; its salts
Loracarbef
Lorazepam
Lormetazepam
Losartan; its salts
Loteprednol; its salts
Lovastatin
Loxoprofen; its salts
Lumefantrine; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Luteinising hormones
Lutropin alpha
Lymecycline
Lynoestrenol
Lypressin



             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 130   1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                      [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Lysuride; its salts; its esters
Mafenide; its salts
Mangafodipir; its salts
Mannomustine; its salts
Maprotiline; its salts
Mazindol
Mebanazine; its salts
Mebutamate
Mecamylamine; its salts
Meclofenamic acid; its salts
Meclofenoxate; its salts
Mecloqualone; its salts
Medazepam
Medigoxin
Medrogestone
Medroxyprogesterone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Mefenamic acid; its salts; its esters; their salts
Mefenorex
Mefruside
Megestrol; its salts
Melengestrol; its salts
Melitracen; its salts
Meloxicam
Melphalan
Memantine; its salts
Menotrophine
Mephenesin; its esters
Meprobamate
Mercaptopurine; its salts; derivatives of mercaptopurine; their salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules             [1999 Ed. p. 131
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Mercurous chloride when contained in medicinal preparations
Mesalazine
Mesocarb
Mesoridazine
Mestanolone
Mesterolone
Mestranol
Metaraminol; its salts
Metaxalone
Metergoline
Metformin; its salts
Methacycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Methallenoestril
Methandienone
Methandriol
Metharbitone
Methcathinone; its salts
Methenolone; its salts
Methicillin; its salts
Methimazole
Methisoprinol
Methixene; its salts
Methocarbamol
Methohexitone; its salts
Methoin
Methoserpidine
Methotrexate; its salts
Methotrimeprazine; its salts
Methoxsalen


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 132   1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                   [CAP. 234, R 1
                      THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
2-methoxy-∝-methyl-4, 5-(methylenedioxy)phenethylamine
5-methoxy-3, 4-methylene-dioxyamphetamine
p-Methoxy-∝-methylphenethylamine
Methoxyphenamine; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Methsuximide
Methyclothiazide
Methylaminoheptane; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Methyldopa
Methyldopate; its salts
3, 4-Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA)
3, 4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)
Methylergometrine; its salts
(±)-N-[∝−methyl-3,4-(methylenedioxy)phenethyl]hydroxylamine
Methylpentynol; its esters and other derivatives
α-Methylphenethylamine, β-methylphenethylamine and α-ethylphenethylamine;
any synthetic compound structurally derived from any of those substances by
substitution in the aliphatic part or by ring closure therein (or by both such
substitution and such closure) or by substitution in the aromatic ring (with or
without substitution at the nitrogen atom), except ephedrine, its optical isomers
and N-substituted derivatives, fenfluramine, hydroxyamphetamine,
methoxyphenamine, phenylpropanolamine, pholedrine and prenylamine; any
salt of any substance falling within this item
Methylphenobarbitone
Methylprednisolone; its salts
Methylsulphonal
Methyltestosterone
Methylthiouracil
Methyprylone; its salts
Metipranolol; its salts
Metoclopramide; its salts
Metolazone


           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules              [1999 Ed. p. 133
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Metomidate; its salts
Metoprolol; its salts
Metronidazole; its salts
Mexiletine; its salts
Mianserin; its salts
Mibefradil; its salts
Miconazole; its salts; except in dermatological and vaginal preparations
Micronomicin; its salts
Midazolam; its salts
Midodrine; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Miglitol
Milrinone; its salts
Miltefosine
Minocycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Minoxidil; its salts; except when contained in topical preparations
Mirtazapine
Misoprostol
Mithramycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Mitobronitol
Mitomycins; its salts; its esters; their salts
Mitopodozide; its salts
Mitotane
Mitoxantrone; its salts
Moclobemide
Moexipril; its salts
Molgramostim
Molindone; its salts
Mometasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Montelukast; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 134    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Morazone; its salts
Morinamide; its salts
Moroxydine; its salts
Moxalactam; its salts
Moxifloxacin; its salts
Moxonidine
Mupirocin; its salts
Muromonab-CD3
Mustine and any other N-substituted derivatives of di-(2-chloroethyl) amine,
their salts
Mycophenolic acid; its salts; its derivatives; their salts
Nabumetone
Nadolol
Nadroparin; its salts
Nafarelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Nafcillin; its salts
Naftidrofuryl; its salts
Nalbuphine; its salts
Nalidixic acid; its salts; its esters and salts of such esters
Naloxone; its salts
Nandrolone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Naratriptan; its salts
Natamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Nateglinide
Nealbarbitone
Nebivolol; its salts
Nedocromil; its salts
Nefazodone; its salts
Nefopam; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules             [1999 Ed. p. 135
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Nelfinavir; its salts; its esters; their salts
Neomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Netilmicin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Nevirapine; its salts
Nialamide; its salts
Niaprazine
Nicardipine; its salts
Nicergoline
Nicoumalone
Nifedipine
Nifuroxazide
Nifurzide
Nikethamide
Nilvadipine
Nimesulide
Nimetazepam
Nimodipine
Nimorazole; its salts
Niridazole
Nisoldipine
Nitrazepam
Nitrendipine
Nitrofurantoin; its salts
Nitrofurazone
Nitromin; its salts
Nitroprusside; its salts
Nitroxoline
Nizatidine
Nomegestrol; its salts; its esters; their salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 136    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                        THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Nometasone; its salts; its esters; their salts
Nomifensine; its salts
Noradrenaline; its salts; except when contained in preparations intended for
external application only or in inhalants; rectal preparations or preparations
intended for use in the eye
Noramidopyrine; its salts; noramidopyrine sulphonates; their salts
Nordazepam
Norelgestromin
Norethandrolone
Norethisterone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Norethynodrel
Norfloxacin; its salts; its esters and salts of such esters
Norgestimate
Norgestrel
Nortriptyline; its salts
Novobiocin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Noxythiolin
Nystatin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Octacosactrin
Octreotide; its salts; its esters, their salts
Oestradiol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Oestriol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Oestrogenic substances, conjugated
Oestrone
Ofloxacin; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Olanzapine
Oleandomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Olopatadine
Olsalazine; its salts



             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed. p. 137
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Omeprazole; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Ondansetron; its salts
Opipramol; its salts
Orciprenaline; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Orlistat
Ornidazole; its salts
Orphenadrine; its salts
Oseltamivir; its salts
Oxaliplatin
Oxamniquine
Oxandrolone
Oxazepam; its salts
Oxazolam
Oxcarbazepine
Oxedrine tartrate
Oxidronic acid; its salts
Oxolinic acid
Oxpentifylline
Oxprenolol; its salts
Oxybutynin; its salts
Oxymesterone
Oxymetholone; its salts
Oxypertine; its salts
Oxyphenbutazone
Oxyphencyclimine; its salts; its esters
Oxyphenonium; its salts
Oxytetracycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Oxytocins, natural and synthetic
Paclitaxel; which are intended for the treatment of human ailments


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 138    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                   [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Pamidronate; its salts
Pancuronium; its salts
Pantoprazole
Paraldehyde
Paramethadione
Paramethasone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Paramethoxyamphetamine
Parecoxib; its salts
Pargyline; its salts
Paricalcitol
Parnaparin; its salts
Paromomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Paroxetine; its salts
Pecilocin
Pefloxacin; its salts
Pemoline; its salts
Pempidine; its salts
Penamecillin
Penciclovir
Penethamate; its salts
Penfluridol
Penicillamine; its salts
Penicillin, any antimicrobial acid, any salt thereof, or any derivative which is
obtained therefrom, which may be shown on chemical and physical examination
to contain in its structure a fused thiazolidine β-lactam nucleus; their esters; their
salts
Penicillin V; its salts; its esters; their salts
Pentamidine; its salts
Pentazocine; its salts
Pentobarbitone; its salts


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed. p. 139
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Pentolinium; its salts
Pergolide; its salts
Perhexiline; its salts
Pericyazine
Perindopril; its salts
Perphenazine; its salts
Phenacemide
Phenacetin
Phenaglycodol
Phenbenicillin; its salts
Phenbutrazate; its salts
Phencyclidine; its salts
Phenelzine; its salts
Phenethicillin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Phenethylamine; its salts
Phenetidylphenacetin; its salts
Pheneturide
Phenformin; its salts
Phenglutarimide; its salts
Phenindione
Phenmetrazine; its salts
Phenobarbitone; its salts
Phenothiazine, derivatives of; their esters; their salts and its molecular
compounds except the following:
    Dimethoxanate; its salts
    Isothipendyl; its salts
    Mequitazine
    Methdilazine; its salts
    Oxomemazine; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 140    1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
    Promethazine; its salts
    Pyrathiazine; its salts
    Thiazinamium methylsulphate
Phenoxybenzamine; its salts
Phenoxymethylpenicillin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Phenoxypropazine; its salts
Phenprocoumon
Phensuximide
Phentermine; its salts
Phentolamine; its salts
Phenylbutazone; its salts
2-Phenylcinchoninic acid; 2-salicylcinchoninic acid; their salts; their esters
N-Phenylethyl anthranilic acid
5-Phenylhydantoin; its alkyl and aryl derivatives; their salts
Phenylmethyl barbituric acid
Phenytoin; its salts
Phthalylsulphacetamide
Phthalylsulphathiazole; its salts
Pimecrolimus
Pimozide; its salts
Pinazepam
Pioglitazone; its salts
Pipecuronium; its salts
Pipemidic acid
Piperacillin; its salts
Piperazine oestrone sulphate
Pipothiazine; its salts
Pipradrol; its salts; its esters and ethers
Piracetam


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed. p. 141
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Pirenoxine; its salts
Pirenzepine; its salts
Piribedil
Piroxicam; except when contained in preparations intended for external
application only
Pirprofen
Pituitary gland, the active principles of, other than corticotrophins, oxytocins and
vasopressins; except when contained in inhalants or in preparations intended for
external application only
Pivmecillinam; its salts
Pizotifen; its salts
Poisonous venom, animal origin
Polidexide; its salts
Polymethylene-bistrimethylammonium salts
Polymyxins; its salts; its esters; their salts
Polyoestradiol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Polythiazide
Practolol; its salts
Pralidoxime; its salts
Pravastatin; its salts
Prazepam
Praziquantel
Prazosin; its salts
Prednicarbate
Prednisolone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Prednisone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Prenylamine; its salts
Primidone
Prindolol
Probenecid


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 142     1999 Ed.]              Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Probucol
Procainamide; its salts
Procaine penicillin
Procarbazine; its salts
Procaterol; its salts
Prochlorperazine; its salts
Procyclidine; its salts
Profenone; its salts
Progesterone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Prolintane; its salts
Promazine; its salts
Promestriene
Promoxolane
Pronethalol; its salts
Propafenone; its salts
Propanidid
Propicillin; its salts
Propiomazine; its salts
Propiverine; its salts
Propofol
Propoxyphene; its salts
Propranolol; its salts
Propylhexedrine; its salts; except when contained in inhalers
Propylthiouracil
Propyromazine; its salts
Proquamezine; its salts
Proquazone
Prostaglandins
Protamine sulphate


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules               [1999 Ed. p. 143
                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Prothionamide; its salts
Prothipendyl; its salts
Protirelin; its salts
Protriptyline; its salts
Proxyphylline
Pyrazinamide; its salts
Pyridinolcarbamate
Pyridostigmine; its salts
Pyritinol; its salts
L-Pyroglutamyl-L-histidyl-L-proline amide
Pyrovalerone
Quetiapine; its salts
Quinagolide; its salts
Quinalbarbitone; its salts
Quinapril; its salts
Quinestradol
Quinestrol
Quinethazone
Quinidine; its salts
Quinidine phenylethylbarbiturate
Quinine; its quarternary compounds, their salts
Quinupristin
Rabeprazole; its salts
Radioactive iodine, salts of; when contained in preparations intended for the
treatment of human ailments
Rafoxanide
Raloxifene; its salts
Ramipril




             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 144     1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Ranitidine; its salts; except oral preparations containing not more than 75mg in
solid dosage form, or 150mg/10ml in liquid dosage form, of ranitidine,
calculated as its free base
Rasburicase
Raubasine
Rauwolfia, alkaloids of; their quarternary compounds; derivatives of alkaloids of
rauwolfia; their salts
Razoxane
Reboxetine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Remifentanil; its salts
Reserpine
Residronic acid; its salts
Reteplase
13-cis Retinoic acid
Reviparin; its salts
Ribavirin
Rifamide; its salts
Rifampicin
Rifamycins; its salts; its esters; their salts; that is to say, a group of related
antimicrobial microlactans, either produced by the growth of streptomyces
mediterranei or by modification of such products, and containing the chemical
structure of 11-acetoxy-7, 9, 15-trihydroxy-13- methoxy-2, 6, 8, 10, 12-
pentamethyl-pentadeca-2, 4, 14, trienoic acid amide, attached by the nitrogen
atom and by the oxygen atom in the 15 position respectively to the 7 and 2-
positions of a 5, 6, 9-trioxygenated 2, 4-dimethyl-1-oxonaphtho (2,1b) furan
Rilmenidine; its salts
Riluzole
Rimexolone
Rimiterol; its salts
Risperidone
Ristocetin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ritodrine; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules             [1999 Ed. p. 145
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Ritonavir
Rituximab
Rivastigmine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Rizatriptan; its salts; its esters; their salts
Rocuronium; its salts
Rofecoxib
Rolitetracycline; its salts; its esters; their salts
Ropinirole; its salts
Ropivacaine; its salts
Rosiglitazone; its salts
Rosoxacin
Rosuvastatin
Roxatidine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Roxithromycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Salazosulphadimidine
Salbutamol; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Salmefamol
Salmeterol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Santonin
Saquinavir; its salts
Secbutobarbitone; its salts
Secnidazole
Selegiline; its salts
Sertraline; its salts
Sibutramine; its salts
Sildenafil; its salts
Silver sulphadiazine
Simfibrate
Simvastatin


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 146    1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                       [CAP. 234, R 1
                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Sirolimus
Sisomicin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Sodium aurothiomalate
Sodium cromoglycate; except ophthalmic or nasal preparations containing not
more than 2% of sodium cromoglycate
Sodium fluoride; which are intended for the treatment of human ailments
Sodium picosulphate
Sodium valproate
Somatostatin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Somatropin, natural and synthetic
Sotalol; its salts
Sparfloxacin
Spectinomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Spiramycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Spironolactone
Stanolone
Stanozolol
Stavudine
Stilboestrol; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Streptokinase
Streptomycin and its derivatives; its salts; its esters; their salts
Streptozocin
Strontium [89Sr], salts of; when contained in preparations intended for the
treatment of human ailments
Styramate
Succinylsulphathiazole
Sulbactam; its salts
Sulbenicillin; its salts
Sulfabenzamide



             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                    Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed. p. 147
                       THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Sulfacytine
Sulfametopyrazine
Sulfametrole; its salts
Sulindac
Sulphabromomethazine
Sulphacetamide; its salts
Sulphachlorpyridazine
Sulphadiazine; its salts
Sulphadicramide
Sulphadimethoxine
Sulphadimidine; its salts
Sulphadoxine
Sulphaethidole
Sulphafurazole; its salts; its acetyl derivatives; their salts
Sulphaguanidine
Sulphaloxic acid
Sulphamerazine; its salts
Sulphamethazine
Sulphamethizole
Sulphamethoxazole
Sulphamethoxydiazine
Sulphamethoxypyridazine
Sulphametopyrazine
Sulphamonomethoxine
Sulphamoxole
Sulphanilamide
Sulphaphenazole
Sulphapyrazole
Sulphapyridine


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 148    1999 Ed.]                Poisons Rules                  [CAP. 234, R 1
                        THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Sulphaquinoxaline
Sulphasalazine
Sulphasomidine
Sulphathiazole; its salts
Sulphathiourea
Sulphatolamide
Sulphaurea
Sulphinpyrazone
Sulphomyxin; its salts
Sulphonal; alkyl sulphonals
Sulpiride
Sulprostone
Sultamicillin; its salts
Sulthiame
Sumatriptan; its salts; its esters; their salts
Suprarenal gland medulla, the active principles of; their salts; except when
contained in preparations intended for external application only or in inhalants
(except inhalants in aerosol dispensers containing adrenaline or its salts), rectal
preparations or preparations intended for use in the eye
Suprofen; its salts
Suxamethonium; its salts
Suxethonium bromide
Syrosingopine
Tacrine; its salts
Tacrolimus; its salts
Tadalafil; its salts
Talampicillin; its salts
Tamoxifen; its salts
Tazarotene
Tazobactam; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed. p. 149
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Teclothiazide; its salts
Tegafur
Tegaserod; its salts
Teicoplanin
Telithromycin; its salts
Telmisartan
Temazepam
Temozolomide
Tenecteplase
Teniposide
Tenocyclidine
Tenonitrozole
Tenoxicam
Terazosin; its salts
Terbinafine; its salts; except dermatological preparations containing not more
than 1% of terbinafine, calculated as its free base
Terbutaline; its salts; when contained in aerosol dispensers
Terconazole
Terfenadine
Teriparatide
Terlipressin; its salts
Tertatolol; its salts
Testosterone; its salts; its esters and ethers; their salts
Tetrabenazine; its salts
Tetracosactide; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tetracyclines; its salts; its esters; their salts; that is to say, the antimicrobial
substances containing the chemical structure naphthacene-2-carboxymide,
hydrogenated to any extent and having each of the positions 1, 3, 10, 11 and 12
substituted by a hydroxyl or an oxo group
Tetrahydropalmatine; its isomers; their salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 150     1999 Ed.]               Poisons Rules               [CAP. 234, R 1
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Tetrazepam
Thalidomide; its salts
Theofibrate
Theophylline; its salts; its derivatives; its compounds
Thiabendazole
Thiacetazone
Thialbarbitone; its salts
Thiambutosine
Thiamphenicol; its salts; its esters; their salts
Thiethylperazine; its salts
Thiocarlide; its salts
Thioguanine; its salts
Thiopentone; its salts
Thiopropazate; its salts
Thioproperazine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Thioridazine; its salts
Thiotepa; its salts
Thiothixene; its salts
Thymosin alpha 1
Thymoxamine; its salts
Thyroid gland, the active principles of; their salts
Thyrotrophin
Thyroxine; its salts
Tiagabine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tianeptine; its salts
Tiapride; its salts
Tiaprofenic acid; its salts
Tibolone
Ticarcillin; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules              [1999 Ed. p. 151
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Ticlopidine; its salts
Tigloidine; its salts
Tilidine; its salts
Tiludronic acid; its salts
Timolol; its salts
Tinidazole
Tinzaparin; its salts
Tiotropium; its salts
Tirilazad; its salts
Tirofiban; its salts
Tixocortol; its salts
Tizanidine; its salts
Tobramycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tocainide; its salts
Tofenacin; its salts
Tolazamide; its salts
Tolbutamide; its salts
Tolcapone
Tolmetin; its salts
Toloxatone
Tolperisone; its salts
Tolterodine; its salts
Topiramate
Topotecan; its salts
Toremifene; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tosufloxacin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tramadol; its salts
Tranexamic acid
Tranylcypromine; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 152    1999 Ed.]                  Poisons Rules             [CAP. 234, R 1
                           THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Trastuzumab
Travoprost
Trazodone; its salts
Treosulphan
Tretamine; its salts
Tretinoin (all-trans Retinoic acid)
Triacetyloleandomycin
Triamcinolone; its salts; except preparations containing not more than 0.1% of
triamcinolone acetonide in orabase
Triamterene; its salts
Triaziquone
Triazolam
Tribenoside
Tribromethyl alcohol
2, 2, 2-Trichloroethyl alcohol, esters of; their salts
Trichomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Triclofos sodium
Tricyclamol; its salts
Trienbolone
Trientine; its salts, which are intended for the treatment of human ailments
Trifluoperazine; its salts
Trifluperidol; its salts
Trifluridine; its salts; its esters; their salts
Triflusal; its salts; its esters; their salts
Trimebutine; its salts
Trimegestone
Trimeprazine; its salts
Trimetaphan; its salts
Trimetazidine; its salts


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                      Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed. p. 153
                          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Trimethoprim
3, 4, 5-Trimethoxyamphetamine
Trimetrexate; its salts; its esters; their salts
Trimipramine; its salts
Trimustine; its salts
Tripamide
Triptorelin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Tromantadine; its salts
Tropicamide
Tropisetron; its salts
Trospium; its salts
Trovafloxacin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Troxidone
Tybamate
Tylosin; its salts; its esters and their salts
Tyrothricin; its salts; its esters; their salts; except when contained in lozenges
Unoprostone; its salts; its esters and their salts
Uramustine
Urapidil; its salts
Ureamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Urethane
Urokinase
Ursodeoxycholic acid; its salts; its esters; their salts
Vaccines, sera, toxoids, antitoxoids, immunoglobulins and antigens for human
administration
Valaciclovir; its salts
Valdecoxib Valganciclovir; its salts
Valproic acid; its salts
Valsartan


            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 154   1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules                [CAP. 234, R 1
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Vancomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Vardenafil; its salts; its active derivatives
Vasopressins, natural and synthetic
Vecuronium; its salts
Venlafaxine; its salts
Verapamil; its salts
Verteporfin; its salts; its isomers; their salts
Vidarabine
Vigabatrin
Viloxazine; its salts
Vinbarbitone; its salts
Vinblastine; its salts
Vincristine; its salts
Vindesine; its salts
Vinorelbine; its salts
Vinpocetine
Vinylbital
Viomycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Virginiamycin; its salts; its esters; their salts
Voriconazole
Warfarin; its salts
Xamoterol; its salts
Xipamide
Xylazine; its salts
Zafirlukast
Zalcitabine
Zanamivir
Zidovudine
Zipeprol; its salts


              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                     Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed. p. 155
                         THIRD SCHEDULE — continued
Ziprasidone; its salts
Zofenopril; its salts
Zolendronic acid; its salts
Zolmitriptan
Zolpidem; its salts
Zopiclone
Zoxazolamine; its salts
Zuclopenthixol; its salts; its esters; their salts

                            FOURTH SCHEDULE
                                                                            Rule 21(2)

STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS AS TO THE PROPORTION OF POISON IN
          CERTAIN CASES PERMITTED BY RULE 21(2)
             Name of Poison.                              Particulars.
Alkaloids:
Aconite, alkaloids of                       The proportion of any one alkaloid of
                                            aconite that the preparation would be
                                            calculated to contain on the assumption
                                            that all the alkaloids of aconite in the
                                            prepration were that alkaloid.
Belladonna, alkaloids of                    The same as under aconite with the
                                            substitution for the reference to aconite
                                            of a reference to belladonna, calabar
                                            bean or such other of the said poisons,
                                            as the case may require.
Calabar beans, alkaloids of
Coca, alkaloids of
Colchicum, alkaloids of
Ephedra, alkaloids of
Ergot, alkaloids of
Gelsemium, alkaloids of
Jaborandi, alkaloids of


             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 156   1999 Ed.]             Poisons Rules                      [CAP. 234, R 1
                     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued
Lobelia, alkaloids of
Pomegranate, alkaloids of
Quebracho, alkaloids of, other than the
alkaloids of red quebracho
Sabadilla, alkaloids of
Solanaceous alkaloids not otherwise
included in the Poisons List set out in
the Schedule to the Act
Stavesacre, alkaloids of
Veratrum, alkaloids of
Yohimba, alkaloids of
Antimonial poisons                        The proportion of antimony trioxide
                                          (Sb2O3) or antimony pentoxide
                                          (Sb2O5) that the preparation would be
                                          calculated to contain on the assumption
                                          that the antimony (Sb) in the poison had
                                          been wholly converted into antimony
                                          trioxide or antimony pentoxide, as the
                                          case may be.
Arsenical poisons                         The proportion of arsenic trioxide
                                          (As2O3) or arsenic pentoxide (As2O5)
                                          that the preparation would be
                                          calculated to contain on the
                                          assumption that the arsenic (As) in the
                                          poison had been wholly converted into
                                          arsenic trioxide or arsenic pentoxide, as
                                          the case may be.
Barium, salts of                          The proportion of one particular barium
                                          salt which the preparation would be
                                          calculated to contain on the assumption
                                          that the barium (Ba) in the poison had
                                          been wholly converted into that salt.
Digitalis, glycosides of; other active The number of units of activity as
principles of digitalis                defined in the British Pharmacopoeia
                                       contained in a specified quantity of the
                                       preparation.



           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                  Poisons Rules                  [1999 Ed. p. 157
                    FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued
Insulin                                 The number of units of activity as
                                        defined in the British Pharmacopoeia
                                        contained in a specified quantity of the
                                        preparation.
Lead, compounds of, with acids from The proportion of lead oxide (Pb0) that
fixed oils                          the preparation would be calculated to
                                    contain on the assumption that the lead
                                    in the poison had been wholly
                                    converted into lead oxide.
Mercury, organic compounds of           The proportion of organically-
                                        combined mercury (Hg) contained in
                                        the preparation.
Nux Vomica                              The proportion of strychnine contained
                                        in the preparation.
Opium                                   The proportion of morphine contained
                                        in the preparation.
Phenols                                 The proportion of the phenols (added
                                        together) contained in the preparation.
Compounds of phenol with a metal        The proportion of phenols (added
                                        together) that the preparation would
                                        be calculated to contain on the
                                        assumption that the compounds of
                                        phenols with a metal had been wholly
                                        converted into the corresponding
                                        phenols.
Pituitary gland, the active principles of Either —
                                         (a) the number of units of activity as
                                         defined in the British Pharmacopoeia
                                         contained in a specified quantity of the
                                         preparation;
                                         (b) the proportion of pituitary gland, or
                                         of anterior or posterior lobe of the
                                         gland, as the case may be, contained in
                                         the preparation; or
                                         (c) the amount of pituitary gland, or of
                                         anterior or of posterior lobe of the
                                         gland, as the case may be, from which


           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 158   1999 Ed.]             Poisons Rules                   [CAP. 234, R 1
                     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued
                                        a specified quantity of the preparation
                                        was obtained, together with an
                                        indication whether the amount relates
                                        to fresh or dried gland substance.
Strophanthus, glycosides of            The amount of Standard Tincture of
                                       Strophanthus as defined in the British
                                       Pharmacopoeia 1948, which possesses
                                       the same activity as a specified quantity
                                       of the preparation when assayed by the
                                       method described in the said
                                       Pharmacopoeia.
Suprarenal gland medulla, the active Either —
principles of; their salts
                                        (a) the proportion of suprarenal gland
                                        or of the medulla of the gland, as the
                                        case may be, contained in the
                                        preparation; or
                                        (b) the amount of suprarenal gland, or
                                        of the medulla of the gland, as the case
                                        may be, from which a specified
                                        quantity of the preparation was
                                        obtained, together with an indication
                                        whether the amount relates to fresh or
                                        dried gland substance.
Thyroid gland, the active principles of; Either —
their salts
                                        (a) the proportion of thyroid gland
                                        contained in the preparation; or
                                        (b) the amount of thyroid gland from
                                        which a specified quantity of the
                                        preparation was obtained together
                                        with an indication whether the
                                        amount relates to fresh or to dried
                                        gland.




           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                  Poisons Rules                 [1999 Ed. p. 159
                             FIFTH SCHEDULE
                                                                         Rule 22(1)

                INDICATION OF CHARACTER OF ARTICLE
                       PRESCRIBED BY RULE 22
              First column                          Second column
                Articles                     To be labelled with the words
 1. Veterinary medicines                “Poison. For animal treatment only.”
 2. Substances used for the             “Poison. For animal treatment only.”
    treatment of animals
 3. Fluoroacetamide; fluoroacetanilide “Caution. This substance is poisonous.
                                       The inhalation of its vapour, mist, spray
                                       or    dust    may       have    harmful
                                       consequences. It may also be
                                       dangerous to let the substance come
                                       into contact with the skin or clothing.”
 4. Organic compounds of                “Caution. This substance is poisonous.
    mercury in aerosols                 The inhalation of its vapour, mist, spray
                                        or    dust    may       have    harmful
                                        consequences. It may also be
                                        dangerous to let the substance come
                                        into contact with the skin or clothing.”
 5. Monofluoroacetic acid;              “Caution. This substance is poisonous.
    its salts                           Inhalation of the powder is dangerous.
                                        It is also dangerous to let the substance
                                        come into contact with the skin or
                                        clothing.”

                                                        [S 555/2016 wef 01/11/2016]


                             SIXTH SCHEDULE
                                                                         Rule 28(1)

      SUBSTANCES TO WHICH RULE 28 (TRANSPORT) APPLIES
Arsenical poisons
Barium, salts of
Fluoracetamide; fluoroacetanilide
Formetanate


           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 160   1999 Ed.]                 Poisons Rules               [CAP. 234, R 1
                      SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued
Monofluoroacetic acid; its salts
Nicotine, except in solid preparations containing less than 4% of nicotine
Strychnine
Thallium, salts of

                         SEVENTH SCHEDULE
                                                                           Rule 33

      SUBSTANCES TO WHICH RULE 33 (COLOURING) APPLIES
Arsenical poisons
Fluoroacetamide; fluoroacetanilide
Monofluoroacetic acid; its salts

                          EIGHTH SCHEDULE
                                                                     Rules 3(1) (a)
                                     FORM A




           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed. p. 161
                   EIGHTH SCHEDULE — continued
                              POISONS ACT
                             (CHAPTER 234)




                                FORM B
                   [Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]
                                FORM C




          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 162   1999 Ed.]             Poisons Rules                 [CAP. 234, R 1
                     EIGHTH SCHEDULE — continued
                               POISONS ACT
                              (CHAPTER 234)




                                 FORM D




           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                Poisons Rules                [1999 Ed. p. 163
                   EIGHTH SCHEDULE — continued
                              POISONS ACT
                             (CHAPTER 234)




                                 FORM E




          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 164   1999 Ed.]               Poisons Rules                   [CAP. 234, R 1
                      EIGHTH SCHEDULE — continued
                                 POISONS ACT
                                (CHAPTER 234)




                            NINTH SCHEDULE
                                                                             Rule 8

                                      FEES
 1. The fee for any application for a licence issued under the Act in respect of
poisons included in the Poisons List shall be $290.
                                                           [S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]
                                                         [S 100/2019 wef 02/04/2019]
                                                         [S 463/2022 wef 01/07/2022]
                                                         [S 494/2024 wef 01/07/2024]
 2. [Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]
 3. The fee for any licence issued under the Act in respect of poisons included in
the Poisons List shall be $111 for one year or part thereof.
                                                           [S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999]
                                                         [S 100/2019 wef 02/04/2019]
                                                         [S 463/2022 wef 01/07/2022]
                                                         [S 494/2024 wef 01/07/2024]




           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
CAP. 234, R 1]                 Poisons Rules                     [1999 Ed. p. 165
                      NINTH SCHEDULE — continued
 4. The fee for making any amendment to a licence on any one occasion in
respect of any poison included in the Poisons List is $39.
                                                          [S 100/2019 wef 02/04/2019]
                                                          [S 463/2022 wef 01/07/2022]
                                                          [S 494/2024 wef 01/07/2024]

  5. Registered pharmacists shall be exempted from the payment of any fee for a
licence issued under the Act or these Rules.

                          TENTH SCHEDULE
            LABELLING PRESCRIBED BY RULES 22 AND 23




                        ELEVENTH SCHEDULE
Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999.

                        TWELFTH SCHEDULE
Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999.

                      THIRTEENTH SCHEDULE
Deleted by S 177/99 wef 01/04/1999.
                                [G.N. Nos. S 94/57; S 44/58; S91/58; S122/58; S212/60;
                                      S220/61;Sp.; S134/64; S143/64; S152/64; S212/65;
                                   S236/66; S155/68; S75/69; S76/70; S 353/73; S15/74;
                                 S364/74; S19/75; S223/76; S173/77; S131/78; S240/78;
                                  S 61/80; S173/81; S185/82; S323/82; S360/82; S30/83;
                                S278/83; S200/84; S 206/85; S341/85; S210/86; S103/87;
                                      S41/88; S81/88; S18/89; S19/89; S64/89; S360/89;


           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
p. 166   1999 Ed.]             Poisons Rules                      [CAP. 234, R 1
                     THIRTEENTH SCHEDULE — continued
                                  S421/89; S54/90; S134/90; S52/91; S474/91; S542/91;
                                 S551/91; S186/92; S279/92; S10/93; S158/93; S171/93;
                                  S223/93; S23/95; S93/95; S189/95; S264/95; S417/95;
                                S100/96; S108/96; S226/96; S234/96; S390/97; S510/97;
                                                            S83/98; S455/98; S510/98]




           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                             POISONS RULES
                           (CHAPTER 234, R 1)
 This Legislative History is provided for the convenience of users of the Poisons
Rules. It is not part of these Rules.
 1. 1990 Revised Edition — Poisons Rules
     Date of operation                       : 25 March 1992
 2. G. N. No. S 390/1997 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 1997
     Date of commencement                    : 1 October 1997
 3. G. N. No. S 510/1997 — Poisons (Amendment No. 2) Rules 1997
     Date of commencement                    : 1 December 1997
 4. G. N. No. S 83/1998 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 1998
     Date of commencement                    : 27 February 1998
 5. G. N. No. S 455/1998 — Poisons (Amendment No. 2) Rules 1998
     Date of commencement                    : 28 August 1998
 6. G. N. No. S 510/1998 — Poisons (Amendment No. 3) Rules 1998
     Date of commencement                    : 15 October 1998
 7. 1999 Revised Edition — Poisons Rules
     Date of operation                       : 1 January 1999
 8. G. N. No. S 632/1998 — Poisons (Amendment No. 4) Rules 1998
     Date of commencement                    : 1 January 1999
 9. G. N. No. S 51/1999 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 1999
     Date of commencement                    : 1 March 1999
10. G. N. No. S 177/1999 — Poisons (Amendment No. 2) Rules 1999
     Date of commencement                    : 1 April 1999
11. G. N. No. S 279/1999 — Poisons (Amendment No. 3) Rules 1999
     Date of commencement                    : 10 June 1999
12. G. N. No. S 68/2000 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2000
     Date of commencement                    : 1 March 2000




           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                                    ii
13. G. N. No. S 238/2001 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2001
    Date of commencement                  : 1 July 2001
14. G. N. No. S 473/2002 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2002
    Date of commencement                  : 16 September 2002
15. G. N. No. S 189/2004 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2004
    Date of commencement                  : 14 April 2004
16. G. N. No. S 299/2005 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2005
    Date of commencement                  : 1 June 2005
17. G. N. No. S 688/2007 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2007
    Date of commencement                  : 1 January 2008
18. G. N. No. S 539/2008 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2008
    Date of commencement                  : 1 November 2008
19. G. N. No. S 304/2009 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2009
    Date of commencement                  : 1 July 2009
20. G.N. No. S 714/2012 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2012
    Date of commencement                  : 1 January 2013
21. G.N. No. S 62/2016 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2016
    Date of commencement                  : 1 April 2016
22. G.N. No. S 555/2016 — Poisons (Amendment No. 2) Rules 2016
    Date of commencement                  : 1 November 2016
23. G.N. No. S 216/2018 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2018
    Date of commencement                  : 1 June 2018
24. G.N. No. S 100/2019 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2019
    Date of commencement                  : 2 April 2019
25. G.N. No. S 112/2021 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2021
    Date of commencement                  : 1 March 2021
26. G.N. No. S 463/2022 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2022
    Date of commencement                  : 1 July 2022
27. G.N. No. S 562/2022 — Poisons (Amendment No. 2) Rules 2022
    Date of commencement                  : 1 August 2022


          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                                    iii
28. G. N. No. S 834/2023 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2023
    Date of commencement                  : 31 December 2021
                                            18 December 2023
29. G.N. No. S 494/2024 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2024
    Date of commencement                  : 1 July 2024
30. G.N. No. S 255/2026 — Poisons (Amendment) Rules 2026
    Date of commencement                  : 1 May 2026




          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
